⸨cen⸩CHAPTER VI⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩Then⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.
2 And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩:
3 And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by ⸨i⸩the name of⸨/i⸩ God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.
4 And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers.
5 And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.
6 Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm, and with great judgments:
7 And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
8 And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for an heritage: I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
9 ¶ And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
10 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses, saying,
11 Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.
12 And Moses spake before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ of uncircumcised lips?
13 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
14 ¶ These ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ the heads of their fathersʼ houses: The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ the families of Reuben.
15 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the families of Simeon.
16 ¶ And these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the life of Levi ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thirty and seven years.
17 The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families.
18 And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thirty and three years.
19 And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the families of Levi according to their generations.
20 And Amram took him Jochebed his fatherʼs sister to wife; and she bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred and thirty and seven years.
21 ¶ And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zithri,
22 And the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.
23 And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
24 And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the families of the Korhites.
25 And Eleazar Aaronʼs son took him ⸨i⸩one⸨/i⸩ of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.
26 These ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ that Aaron and Moses, to whom the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.
27 These ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ that Moses and Aaron.
28 ¶ And it came to pass on the day ⸨i⸩when⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt,
29 That the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses, saying, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto thee.
30 And Moses said before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, Behold, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?