⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXXIII⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said unto Moses, Depart, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ go up hence, thou and the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt⸨fix:, ⸩. ⸨/fix⸩unto the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it:
2 And I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
3 Unto a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee; for thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the way.
4 ¶ And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments.
5 For the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.
6 And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb.
7 And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. And it came to pass, ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ every one which sought the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ without the camp.
8 And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle, ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ all the people rose up, and stood every man ⸨i⸩at⸨/i⸩ his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.
9 And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood ⸨i⸩at⸨/i⸩ the door of the tabernacle, and ⸨i⸩the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩⸨/i⸩ talked with Moses.
10 And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand ⸨i⸩at⸨/i⸩ the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man ⸨i⸩in⸨/i⸩ his tent door.
11 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle.
12 ¶ And Moses said unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight.
13 Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight: and consider that this nation ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ thy people.
14 And he said, My presence shall go ⸨i⸩with thee⸨/i⸩, and I will give thee rest.
15 And he said unto him, If thy presence go not ⸨i⸩with me⸨/i⸩, carry us not up hence.
16 For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? ⸨i⸩is it⸨/i⸩ not in that thou goest with us? so shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ upon the face of the earth.
17 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name.
18 And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory.
19 And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ before thee; and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew mercy.
20 And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see me, and live.
21 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said, Behold, ⸨i⸩there is⸨/i⸩ a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock:
22 And it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by:
23 And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall not be seen.