⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XV⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩Then⸨/sc⸩ sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.
2 The ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my strength and song, and he is become my salvation: he ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my God, and I will prepare him an habitation; my fatherʼs God, and I will exalt him.
3 The ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ a man of war: the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ his name.
4 Pharaohʼs chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.
5 The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone.
6 Thy right hand, O ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, is become glorious in power: thy right hand, O ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.
7 And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ consumed them as stubble.
8 And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood upright as an heap, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.
9 The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.
10 Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters.
11 Who ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ like unto thee, O ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, among the gods? who ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful ⸨i⸩in⸨/i⸩ praises, doing wonders?
12 Thou stretchedst out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.
13 Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ thou hast redeemed: thou hast guided ⸨i⸩them⸨/i⸩ in thy strength unto thy holy habitation.
14 The people shall hear, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ be afraid: sorrow shall take hold on the inhabitants of Palestina.
15 Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab, trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away.
16 Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine arm they shall be ⸨i⸩as⸨/i⸩ still as a stone; till thy people pass over, O ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, till the people pass over, ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ thou hast purchased.
17 Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, ⸨i⸩in⸨/i⸩ the place, O ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ thou hast made for thee to dwell in, ⸨i⸩in⸨/i⸩ the Sanctuary, O Lord, ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ thy hands have established.
18 The ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ shall reign for ever and ever.
19 For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ brought again the waters of the sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry ⸨i⸩land⸨/i⸩ in the midst of the sea.
20 ¶ And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.
21 And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, for he hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.
22 So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found not water.
23 ¶ And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ bitter: therefore the name of it was called Marah.
24 And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?
25 And he cried unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩; and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ shewed him a tree, ⸨i⸩which⸨/i⸩ when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them,
26 And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians: for I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ that healeth thee.
27 ¶ And they came to Elim, where ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ twelve wells of water, and threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.