⸨cen⸩TABLE OF CONTENTS.

⸨cen⸩——⸨i⸩o⸨/i⸩——

⸨cen⸩PROLEGOMENA.

⸨i⸩INTRODUCTION—⸨/i⸩

⸨in⸩1⸼ Is the Law the starting‑point for the history of ancient Israel or for that of Judaism? The latter possibility is not precluded ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩a priori⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ by the history of the Canon. Reasons for considering it. De Wette, George, Vatke, Reuss, Graf
⸨in⸩2⸼ The three strata of the Pentateuch: Deuteronomy, Priestly Code, Jehovist
⸨in⸩3⸼ The question is as to the Priestly Code and its historical position. Method of the investigation

⸨cen⸩I⸼ ⸨i⸩HISTORY OF WORSHIP.⸨/i⸩

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ I⸼ The Place of Worship—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The historical and prophetical books show no trace in Hebrew antiquity of a sanctuary of exclusive legitimacy
⸨in⸩2⸼ Polemic of the prophets against the sanctuaries. Fall of Samaria. Reformation of Josiah
⸨in⸩3⸼ Influence of the Babylonian exile

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The Jehovist (JE) sanctions a multiplicity of altars
⸨in⸩2⸼ Deuteronomy (D) demands local unity of worship
⸨in⸩3⸼ The Priestly Code (RQ) presupposes that unity, and transfers it, by means of the Tabernacle, to primitive times

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The tabernacle, as a central sanctuary and dwelling for the ark, can nowhere be found in the historical tradition
⸨in⸩2⸼ Nöldekeʼs view untenable

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ II⸼ Sacrifice—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The ritual is according to RQ the main subject of the Mosaic legislation, according to JE it is pre‑Mosaic usage; in RQ the point is How, according to JE and D To Whom, it is offered
⸨in⸩2⸼ The historical books agree with JE; the prophets down to Ezekiel contradict RQ

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Material innovations in RQ. Preliminary remarks on the notion, contents, mode of offering, and propitiatory effects of sacrifice
⸨in⸩2⸼ Material and ideal refinement of the offerings in RQ
⸨in⸩3⸼ The sacrificial meal gives way to holocausts
⸨in⸩4⸼ Development of the trespass‑offering

III⸼
⸨in⸩The centralisation of worship at Jerusalem destroyed the connection of sacrifice with the natural occasions of life, so that it lost its original character

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ III⸼ The Sacred Feasts—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ In JE and D there is a rotation of three festivals. Easter and Pentecost mark the beginning and the end of the corn‑harvest, and the autumn feast the vintage and the bringing home the corn from the threshing‑floor. With the feast of unleavened bread (Maççoth) is conjoined, especially in D, the feast of the sacrifice of the male firstborn of cattle (Pesah)
⸨in⸩2⸼ The feasts based on the offering of firstlings of the field and of the herd. Significance of the land and of agriculture for religion

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ In the historical and prophetical books, the autumn feast only is distinctly attested, and it is the most important in JE and D also: of the others there are only faint traces
⸨in⸩2⸼ But the nature of the festivals is the same as in JE and D

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ In RQ the feasts have lost their reference to harvest and the first fruits; and this essentially changes their nature
⸨in⸩2⸼ The metamorphosis was due to the centralisation of worship, and may ⸨fix:be⸩he⸨/fix⸩ traced down through Deuteronomy and Ezekiel to RQ
⸨in⸩3⸼ To the three festivals RQ adds the great day of atonement, which arose out of the fast‑days of the exile

IV⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The Sabbath, which is connected with the new moon, was originally a lunar festival
⸨in⸩Exaggeration of the Sabbath rest in the Priestly Code
⸨in⸩2⸼ Sabbatical year, and year of Jubilee

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ IV⸼ The Priests and the Levites—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ According to Ezek⸼ xliv⸼, only the Levites of Jerusalem, the sons of Zadok, are to continue priests in the new Jerusalem; the other Levites are to be degraded to their servants and denuded of their priestly rights. According to RQ the Levites never possessed the priestly right, but only the sons of Aaron
⸨in⸩2⸼ These answer to the sons of Zadok

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ In the earliest period of the history of Israel there is no distinction between clergy and laity. Every one may slaughter and sacrifice; there are professional priests only at the great sanctuaries. Priestly families at Shiloh and Dan
⸨in⸩⸨in⸩No setting apart of what is holy
⸨in⸩2⸼ Royal temples of the kings; priests at them as royal officials
⸨in⸩3⸼ Importance of the North‑Israelite priesthood in the time of the kings
⸨in⸩4⸼ The family of Zadok at Jerusalem

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ In the oldest part of JE there are no priests; no Aaron by the side of Moses
⸨in⸩2⸼ In D the Levites are priests. They occur in that character, not to speak of Judges xviii⸼ seq⸼, only in the literature of the exile. Their descent from Moses or Aaron. The spiritual and the secular tribe of Levi. Difficulty of bringing them together
⸨in⸩3⸼ Consolidation of the spiritual tribe in RQ; separation of priests and Levites. Further development of the clergy after the exile. The high priest as head of the theocracy

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ V⸼ The Endowment of the Clergy—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The sacrificial dues raised in RQ
⸨in⸩2⸼ The firstlings were turned into contributions to the priests, and doubled in amount

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Levitical towns
⸨in⸩2⸼ The historical situation underlying the priestly pretensions in RQ

⸨cen⸩II⸼ ⸨i⸩HISTORY OF TRADITION.⸨/i⸩

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ VI⸼ Chronicles—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩⸨fix:1⸼⸩1⸨/fix⸩ David becomes Saulʼs successor without any exertion, all Israel being already on his side, namely, the priests and Levites
⸨in⸩Distortion of the original story of the bringing of the ark to Jerusalem. Omission of unedifying incidents in Davidʼs life
⸨in⸩2⸼ Preparation for the building of the temple. Delight of the narrator in numbers and names. Inconsistency with 1 Kings i⸼ ii⸼
⸨in⸩Picture of David in Chronicles
⸨in⸩3⸼ Solomonʼs sacrifice at the tabernacle at Gibeah. Building of the temple. Retouching of the original narrative

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Estimate of the relation between Judah and Israel; the Israelites do not belong to the temple, nor, consequently, to the theocracy
⸨in⸩2⸼ Levitical idealising of Judah. View taken of those acts of rulers in the temple‑worship which the books of Kings condemn or approve. Inconsistencies with the narrative of the sources; importation of priests and Levites
⸨in⸩3⸼ Divine pragmatism of the sacred history, and its results
⸨in⸩4⸼ The books of Kings obviously present throughout

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The genealogical registers of 1 Chron⸼ i⸼–ix⸼ The ten tribes
⸨in⸩2⸼ Judah and Levi
⸨in⸩3⸼ Chronicles had no other sources for the period before the exile than the historical books preserved to us in the Canon. The diversity of historical view is due to the influence of the law, especially the Priestly Code. The Midrash

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ VII⸼ Judges, Samuel, and Kings—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The formula on which the book of Judges in constructed in point of chronology and of religion
⸨in⸩2⸼ Its relation to the stem of the tradition. Judg⸼ xix⸼–xxi⸼
⸨in⸩3⸼ Occasional additions to the original narratives
⸨in⸩4⸼ Difference of religious attitude in the latter

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Chronological and religious formulas in the books of Samuel
⸨in⸩2⸼ The stories of the rise of the monarchy and the elevation of Saul entirely recast
⸨in⸩3⸼ Saulʼs relation to Samuel
⸨in⸩4⸼ The narrative of Davidʼs youth
⸨in⸩The view taken of Samuel may be regarded as a measure of the growth of the tradition
⸨in⸩Saul and David

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The last religious chronological revision of the books of Kings. Similar in kind to that of Judges and Samuel
⸨in⸩Its standpoint Judæan and Deuteronomistic
⸨in⸩2⸼ Its relation to the materials received from tradition
⸨in⸩3⸼ Differences of sentiment in the sources
⸨in⸩4⸼ In Chronicles the history of ancient Israel is recast in accordance with the ideas of the Priestly Code; in the older historical books it is judged according to the standard of Deuteronomy

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ VIII⸼ The Narrative of the Hexateuch—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Genesis i⸼ and Genesis ii⸼ iii⸼
⸨in⸩2⸼ Genesis iv⸼–xi⸼
⸨in⸩3⸼ The primitive world‑history in JE and in Q

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The history of the patriarchs in JE
⸨in⸩2⸼    ”        ”    in Q
⸨in⸩3⸼ Periods, numbers, covenants, sacrifices in the patriarchal age in Q

III⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The Mosaic history in JE and in Q
⸨in⸩2⸼ Comparison of the various narratives
⸨in⸩3⸼ Conclusion

⸨cen⸩III⸼ ⸨i⸩ISRAEL AND JUDAISM.⸨/i⸩

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ IX⸼ Conclusion of the Criticism of the Law—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The veto of critical analysis
⸨in⸩2⸼ The historical presuppositions of Deuteronomy
⸨in⸩3⸼ The Deuteronomistic revision does not extend over the Priestly Code

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ The final revision of the Hexateuch proceeds from the Priestly Code, as we see from Lev⸼ xvii⸼ seq⸼
⸨in⸩2⸼ Examination of Lev⸼ xxvi⸼
⸨in⸩3⸼ R ⸨fix:cannot⸩cannnot⸨/fix⸩ be separated from RQ

III⸼
⸨in⸩The language of the Priestly Code

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ X⸼ The Oral and the Written Torah—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ No written law in ancient Israel. The Decalogue
⸨in⸩2⸼ The Torah of Jehovah in the mouth of priests and prophets
⸨in⸩3⸼ View of revelation in Jeremiah, Zechariah, and the writer of Isa⸼ xl⸼–lxvi⸼

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Deuteronomy was the first law in our sense of the word. It obtains authority during the exile. End of prophecy
⸨in⸩2⸼ The reforming legislation supplemented by that of the restoration. The usages of worship codified and systematised by Ezekiel and his successors. The Priestly Code—its introduction by Ezra
⸨in⸩3⸼ The Torah the basis of the Canon. Extension of the notion originally attached to the Torah to the other books

⸨sc⸩Chap⸼ XI⸼ The Theocracy as Idea and as Institution—⸨/sc⸩

I⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Freshness and naturalness of early Israelite history
⸨in⸩2⸼ Rise of the state. Relation of Religion and of the Deity to the life of state and nation
⸨in⸩3⸼ The Messianic theocracy of the older prophets is built up on the foundations afforded by the actual community of their time
⸨in⸩4⸼ The idea of the covenant⸨fix:⸩.⸨/fix⸩

II⸼
⸨in⸩1⸼ Foundation of the theocratic constitution under the foreign domination
⸨in⸩2⸼ The law and the prophets⸨fix:⸩.⸨/fix⸩

⸨cen⸩————

⸨cen⸩ISRAEL.

1⸼ The beginnings of the nation
2⸼ The settlement in Palestine
3⸼ The foundation of the kingdom, and the first three kings
4⸼ From Jeroboam I⸼ to Jeroboam II⸼
5⸼ God, the world, and the life of men in Old Israel
6⸼ The fall of Samaria
7⸼ The deliverance of Judah
8⸼ The prophetic reformation
9⸼ Jeremiah and the destruction of Jerusalem
10⸼ The captivity and the restoration
11⸼ Judaism and Christianity
12⸼ The Hellenistic period
13⸼ The Hasmonæans
14⸼ Herod and the Romans
15⸼ The Rabbins
16⸼ The Jewish Dispersion