⸨in⸩3⸼ The instinct was a sound one which led criticism for the time being to turn aside from the historical problem which had originally presented itself to De Wette, and afterwards had been more distinctly apprehended by George and Vatke, in order, in the first instance, to come to some sort of clear understanding as to the composition of the Pentateuch. But a mistake was committed when it was supposed that by a separation of the sources (in which operation attention was quite properly directed chiefly to Genesis) that great historical question had been incidentally answered. The fact was, that it had been merely put to sleep, and Graf has the credit of having, after a considerable interval, awakened it again. In doing so, indeed, he in turn laboured under the disadvantage of not knowing what success had been achieved in separating the sources, and thereby he became involved in a desperate and utterly untenable assumption. This assumption, however, had no necessary connection with his own hypothesis, and at once fell to the ground when the level to which Hupfeld brought the criticism of the text had been reached. Graf originally followed the older view, espoused by Tuch in particular, that in Genesis the Priestly Code, with its so obtrusively bare skeleton, is the “main stock,” and that it is the Jehovist who supplements, and is therefore of course the later. But since, on the other hand, he regarded the ritual legislature of the middle books as much more recent than the work of the Jehovist, he was compelled to tear it asunder as best he could from its introduction in Genesis, and to separate the two halves of the Priestly Code by half a millennium. But Hupfeld had long before made it quite clear that the Jehovist is no mere supplementer, but the author of a perfectly independent work, and that the passages, such as Gen⸼ xx⸼–xxii⸼, usually cited as examples of the way in which the Jehovist worked over the “main stock,” really proceed from quite another source,—the Elohist. Thus the stumbling‑block of Graf had already been taken out of the way, and his path had been made clear by an unlooked‑for ally. Following Kuenenʼs suggestion, he did not hesitate to take the helping‑hand extended to him; he gave up his violent division of the Priestly Code, and then had no difficulty in deducing from the results which he had obtained with respect to the main legal portion similar consequences with regard to the narrative part in Genesis.¹
⸨in⸩The foundations were now laid; it is Kuenen who has since done most for the further development of the hypothesis.² The defenders of the prevailing opinion maintained their ground as well as they could, but from long possession had got somewhat settled on their lees. They raised against the assailants a series of objections, all of which, however, laboured more or less under the disadvantage that they rested upon the foundation which had already been shattered. Passages were quoted from Amos and Hosea as implying an acquaintance with the Priestly Code, but they were not such as could make any impression on those who were already persuaded that the latter was the more recent. Again it was asserted, and almost with violence, that the Priestly Code could not be later than Deuteronomy, and that the Deuteronomist actually had it before him. But the evidences of this proved extremely problematical, while, on the other hand, the dependence of Deuteronomy, as a whole, on the Jehovist came out with the utmost clearness. Appeal was made to the latest redaction of the entire Hexateuch, a redaction which was assumed to be Deuteronomistic; but this yielded the result that the Deuteronomistic redaction could nowhere be traced in any of the parts belonging to the Priestly Code. Even the history of the language itself was forced to render service against Graf: it had already been too much the custom to deal with that as if it were soft wax. To say all in a word, the arguments which were brought into play as a rule derived all their force from a moral conviction that the ritual legislation ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ be old, and ⸨i⸩could⸨/i⸩ not possibly have been committed to writing for the first time within the period of Judaism; that it was not operative before then, that it did not even admit of being carried into effect in the conditions that prevailed previous to the exile, could not shake the conviction—all the firmer because it did not rest on arguments—that at least it existed previously.
⸨in⸩The firemen never came near the spot where the conflagration raged; for it is only within the region of religious antiquities and dominant religious ideas,—the region which Vatke in his ⸨i⸩Biblische Theologie⸨/i⸩ had occupied in its full breadth, and where the real battle first kindled—that the controversy can be brought to a definite issue. In making the following attempt in this direction, I start from the comparison of the three constituents of the Pentateuch,—the Priestly Code, Deuteronomy, and the work of the Jehovist. The contents of the first two are, of course, legislation, as we have seen; those of the third are narrative; but, as the Decalogue (Exod⸼ xx⸼), the Law of the Two Tables (Exod⸼ xxxiv⸼), and the Book of the Covenant (Exod⸼ xxi⸼–xxiii⸼) show, the legislative element is not wholly absent from the Jehovist, and much less is the historical absent from the Priestly Code or Deuteronomy. Further, each writerʼs legal standpoint is mirrored in his account of the history, and conversely; thus there is no lack either of indirect or of direct points of comparison. Now it is admitted that the three constituent elements are separated from each other by wide intervals; the question then arises, In what order? Deuteronomy stands in a relation of comparative nearness both to the Jehovist and to the Priestly Code; the distance between the last two is by far the greatest,—so great that on this ground alone Ewald as early as the year 1831 (⸨i⸩Stud⸼ u⸼ Krit⸼⸨/i⸩, p⸼ 604) declared it impossible that the one could have been written to supplement the other. Combining this observation with the undisputed priority of the Jehovist over Deuteronomy, it will follow that the Priestly Code stands last in the series. But such a consideration, although, so far as I know, proceeding upon admitted data, has no value as long as it confines itself to such mere generalities. It is necessary to trace the succession of the three elements in detail, and at once to test and to fix each by reference to an independent standard, namely, the inner development of the history of Israel so far as that is known to us by trustworthy testimonies, from independent sources.
⸨in⸩The literary and historical investigation on which we thus enter is both wide and difficult. It falls into three parts. In the ⸨i⸩first⸨/i⸩, which lays the foundations, the data relating to sacred archæology are brought together and arranged in such a way as to show that in the Pentateuch the elements follow upon one another and from one another precisely as the steps of the development demonstrably do in the history. Almost involuntarily this argument has taken the shape of a sort of history of the ordinances of worship. Rude and colourless that history must be confessed to be,—a fault due to the materials, which hardly allow us to do more than mark the contrast between pre‑exilic and post‑exilic, and, in a secondary measure, that between Deuteronomic and pre‑Deuteronomic. At the same time there is this advantage arising out of the breadth of the periods treated: they cannot fail to distinguish themselves from each other in a tangible manner; it must be possible in the case of historical, and even of legal works, to recognise whether they were written before or after the exile. The ⸨i⸩second⸨/i⸩ part, in many respects dependent on the first, traces the influence of the successively prevailing ideas and tendencies upon the shaping of historical tradition, and follows the various phases in which that was conceived and set forth. It contains, so to speak, a history of tradition. The ⸨i⸩third⸨/i⸩ part sums up the critical results of the preceding two, with some further determining considerations, and concludes with a more general survey.
⸨in⸩The assumptions I make will find an ever‑recurring justification in the course of the investigation; the two principal are, that the work of the Jehovist, so far as the nucleus of it is concerned, belongs to the course of the Assyrian period, and that Deuteronomy belongs to its close. Moreover, however strongly I am convinced that the latter is to be dated in accordance with 2 Kings xxii⸼, I do not, like Graf, so use this position as to make it the fulcrum for my lever. Deuteronomy is the starting‑point, not in the sense that without it it would be impossible to accomplish anything, but only because, when its position has been historically ascertained, we cannot decline to go on, but must demand that the position of the Priestly Code should also be fixed by reference to history. My inquiry proceeds on a broader basis than that of Graf, and comes nearer to that of Vatke, from whom indeed I gratefully acknowledge myself to have learnt best and most.

⸨in⸩¹ K⸼ H⸼ Graf, ⸨i⸩Die s⸼ g⸼ Grundschrift des Pentateuchs⸨/i⸩, in Merxʼs ⸨i⸩Archiv⸨/i⸩ (1869), p⸼ 466–477. As early as 1866 he had already expressed himself in a letter to Kuenen (November 12) as follows:—“Vous me faites pressentir une solution de cette énigme…cʼest que les parties élohistiques de la Genèse seraient postérieures aux parties jéhovistiques.” Compare Kuenen, ⸨i⸩Theol⸼ Tijdschrift⸨/i⸩ (1870), p⸼ 412. Graf had also in this respect followed Reuss, who (⸨i⸩ut supra⸨/i⸩, p⸼ 24) says of himself: “Le côté faible de ma critique a été que, à lʼégard de tout ce qui ne rentrait pas dans les points énumérés ci‑dessus, je restais dans lʼornière tracée par mes devanciers, admettant sans plus ample examen que le Pentateuque était lʼouvrage de ⸨i⸩lʼhistorien⸨/i⸩ élohiste, complété par ⸨i⸩lʼhistorien⸨/i⸩ jéhoviste, et ne me rendant pas compte de la manière dont lʼélément légal, dont je mʼétais occupé exclusivement, serait venu se joindre à lʼélément historique.

⸨in⸩² A⸼ Kuenen, ⸨i⸩De Godsdienst van Israel⸨/i⸩, Haarlem, 1869–70 (Eng⸼ transl⸼ ⸨i⸩Religion of Israel⸨/i⸩, 1874–5), and ⸨i⸩De priesterlijke Bestanddeelen van Pentateuch en Josua⸨/i⸩, in ⸨i⸩Theol⸼ Tijdschr⸨/i⸩, (1870), p⸼ 391–426.