⸨in⸩1⸼ In the Pentateuch the sacrificial ritual is indeed copiously described, but nowhere in the Old Testament is its significance formally explained; this is treated as on the whole self‑evident and familiar to every one. The general notion of a sacrifice is in the Priestly Code that of ⸨i⸩ḳorban⸨/i⸩, in the rest of the Old Testament that of ⸨i⸩minḥa⸨/i⸩,¹ ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, “gift;” the corresponding verbs are ⸨i⸩haḳrib⸨/i⸩ and ⸨i⸩haggish⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, “to bring near.” Both nouns and both verbs are used originally for the offering of a present to the king (or the nobles) to do him homage, to make him gracious, to support a petition (Judges iii⸼ 17 seq⸼; 1 Sam⸼ x⸼ 27; 1 Kings v⸼ 1 [A⸼V⸼ iv⸼ 21]), and from this are employed with reference to the highest King (Mal⸼ i⸼ 8).
⸨cen⸩⸨lang:Greek⸩Δῶρα θεοὺς πείθει, δῶρ᾽ αἰδοίους βασιλῆας.⸨/lang⸩
The gift must not be unseasonably or awkwardly thrust upon the recipient, not when the kingʼs anger is at white heat, and not by one the sight of whom he hates.
⸨in⸩With respect to the matter of it, the idea of a sacrifice is in itself indifferent, if the thing offered only have value of some sort, and is the property of the offerer. Under ⸨i⸩ḳorban⸨/i⸩ and ⸨i⸩minḥa⸨/i⸩ is included also that which the Greeks called ⸨i⸩anathema⸨/i⸩. The sacred dues which at a later date fall to the priest were without doubt originally ordinary offerings, and amongst these are found even wool and flax (Deut⸼ xviii⸼ 4; Hos⸼ ii⸼ 7, 11 [A⸼V⸼ 5, 9]). But it is quite in harmony with the ⸨lang:French⸩⸨i⸩naïveté⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ of antiquity that as to man so also to God that which is eatable is by preference offered; in this there was the additional advantage, that what God had caused to grow was thus rendered back to Him. In doing this, the regular form observed is that a meal is prepared in honour of the Deity, of which man partakes as Godʼs guest. Offering without any qualifying expression always means a meat or drink offering. On this account the altar is called a table, on this account also salt goes along with flesh, oil with meal and bread, and wine with both; and thus also are we to explain why the flesh, according to rule, is put upon the altar in pieces and (in the earlier period) boiled, the corn ground or baked. Hence also the name “bread of Jehovah” for the offering (Lev⸼ xxi⸼ 22). It is of course true that “in his offering the enlightened Hebrew saw no banquet to Jehovah:” but we hardly think of taking the enlightened Protestant as a standard for the original character of Protestantism.
⸨in⸩The manner in which the portions pertaining to God are conveyed to Him varies. The most primitive is the simple “setting in order” (⸨lang:Hebrew⸩ערך⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩struere⸨/lang⸩) and “pouring out” (⸨lang:Hebrew⸩שפך⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩fundere⸨/lang⸩) in the case of the shewbread and drink offerings; to this a simple eating and drinking would correspond. But the most usual is burning, or, as the Hebrews express it, “making a savour” (⸨lang:Hebrew⸩הקטיר⸨/lang⸩), to which corresponds the more delicate form of enjoyment, that of smelling. Originally, however, it is God Himself who consumes what the flame consumes. In any case the burning is a means of conveying the offering, not, as one might perhaps be disposed to infer from the “sweet savour” (⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩ריח ניחח⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ Gen⸼ viii⸼ 21), a means of preparing it. For in ancient times the Hebrews did not roast the flesh, but boiled it; in what is demonstrably the oldest ritual (Judges vi⸼ 19), the sacrifice also is delivered to the altar flame boiled; and, moreover, not the flesh only but also the bread and the meal are burnt.
⸨in⸩As regards the distinction between bloodless and bloody offerings, the latter, it is well known, are preferred in the Old Testament, but, strictly speaking, the former also have the same value and the same efficacy. The incense‑offering is represented as a means of propitiation (Lev⸼ xvi⸼⸨fix:; ⸩ · ⸨/fix⸩Num⸼ xvii⸼ 12 [A⸼V⸼ xvi⸼ 47]), so also are the ten thousands of rivers of oil figuring between the thousands of rams and the human sacrifice in Micah vi⸼ That the cereal offering is never anything but an accompaniment of the animal sacrifice is a rule which does not hold, either in the case of the shewbread or in that of the high priestʼs daily ⸨i⸩minḥa⸨/i⸩ (Lev⸼ vi⸼ 13 [A⸼V⸼ 20]; Neh⸼ x⸼ 35). Only the drink‑offering has no independent position, and has not in any way the importance it had among the Greeks.
⸨in⸩When a sacrifice is killed, the offering consists not of the blood but of the eatable portions of the flesh. Only these can be designated as the “bread of Jehovah,” and, moreover, only the eatable domestic animals can be presented. At the same time, however, it is true that in the case of the bloody offerings a new motive ultimately came to be associated with the original idea of the gift. The life of which the blood was regarded as the substance (2 Sam⸼ xxiii⸼ 17) had for the ancient Semites something mysterious and divine about it; they felt a certain religious scruple about destroying it. With them flesh was an uncommon luxury, and they ate it with quite different feelings from those with which they partook of fruits or of milk. Thus the act of killing was not so indifferent or merely preparatory a step as for example the cleansing and preparing of corn; on the contrary, the pouring out of blood was ventured upon only in such a way as to give it back to the Deity, the source of life. In this way, not by any means every meal indeed, but every slaughtering, came to be a sacrifice. What was primarily aimed at in it was a mere restoration of His own to the Deity, but there readily resulted a combination with the idea of sacrifice, whereby the latter was itself modified in a peculiar manner. The atoning efficacy of the gift began to be ascribed mainly to the blood and to the vicarious value of the life taken away. The outpouring and sprinkling of blood was in all sacrifices a rite of conspicuous importance, and even the act of slaughtering in the case of some, and these the most valued, a holy act.

⸨in⸩¹ Gen⸼ iv⸼ 3–5; Num⸼ xvi⸼ 15; 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 17, 29, xxvi⸼ 19; Isa⸼ i⸼ 13; Mal⸼ i⸼ 10–13, ii⸼ 12, 13, iii⸼ 3, 4. In the Priestly Code ⸨i⸩minḥa⸨/i⸩ is exclusively a ⸨lang:Latin⸩terminus technicus⸨/lang⸩ for the meal‑offering. The general name in the LXX and in the New Testament is ⸨lang:Greek⸩δῶρον⸨/lang⸩ (Matt⸼ v⸼ 23–24, viii⸼ 4, xv⸼ 5, xxiii⸼ 18, 19). Compare Spencer, “⸨lang:Latin⸩De ratione et origine sacrificiorum⸨/lang⸩” (⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩De Legibus Hebræorum ritualibus⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, iii⸼ 2), by far the best thing that has ever been written on the subject.