⸨in⸩3⸼ There is another and much more important difference in the case of the animal sacrifice. Of this the older practice knows only two kinds apart from extraordinary varieties, which may be left out of account. These two are the burnt‑offering (⸨i⸩῾Olah⸨/i⸩) and the thank‑offering (⸨i⸩Shelem⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩Zebaḥ⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩Zebaḥ‑Shelamim⸨/i⸩). In the case of the first the whole animal is offered on the altar; in the other God receives, besides the blood, only an honorary portion, while the rest of the flesh is eaten by the sacrificial guests. Now it is worth noticing how seldom the burnt‑offering occurs alone. It is necessarily so in the case of human sacrifice (Gen⸼ xxii⸼ 2 seq⸼; Judges xi⸼ 31;⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ 2 Kings iii⸼ 27; Jer⸼ xix⸼ 5); otherwise it is not usual (Gen⸼ viii⸼ 20; Num⸼ xxiii⸼ 1 seq⸼; Judges vi⸼ 20, 26, xiii⸼ 16, 23; 1 Sam⸼ vii⸼ 9 seq⸼; 1 Kings iii⸼ 4, xviii⸼ 34, 38);⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ moreover, all the examples just cited are extraordinary or mythical in their character, a circumstance that may not affect the evidence of the existence of the custom in itself, but is important as regards the statistics of its frequency. As a rule, the ῾Olah occurs only in conjunction with Zebaḥim, and when this is the case the latter are in the majority and are always in the plural, while on the other hand the first is frequently in the singular.⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ They supplement each other like two corresponding halves; the ῾Olah is, as the name implies, properly speaking, nothing more than the part of a great offering that reaches the altar. One might therefore designate as ῾Olah also that part of a single animal which is consecrated to the Deity; this, however, is never done; neither of the blood nor of the fat (⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קטר⸨/lang⸩) is the verb ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩העלה⸨/lang⸩ used, but only of the pieces of the flesh, of which in the case of the minor offering nothing was burnt. But the distinction is merely one of degree; there is none in kind; a small Zebaḥ, enlarged and augmented, becomes an ῾Olah and Zebaḥim; out of a certain number of slaughtered animals which are eaten by the sacrificial company, one is devoted to God and wholly given to the flames. For the rest, it must be borne in mind that as a rule it is only great sacrificial feasts that the historical books take occasion to mention, and that consequently the burnt‑offering, notwithstanding what has been said, comes before us with greater prominence than can have been the average case in ordinary life. Customarily, it is certain, none but thank‑offerings were offered; necessarily so if slaughtering could only be done beside the altar. Where mention is made of a simple offering in the Books of Samuel and Kings, that it is a thank‑offering is matter of course. 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 12 seq⸼ is in this connection also particularly instructive.
⸨in⸩From what has been said it results that according to the praxis of the older period a meal was almost always connected with a sacrifice. It was the rule that only blood and fat were laid upon the altar, but the people ate the flesh; only in the case of very great sacrificial feasts was a large animal (one or more) given to Jehovah. Where a sacrifice took place, there was also eating and drinking (Exod⸼ xxxii⸼ 6; Judges ix⸼ 27; 2 Sam⸼ xv⸼ 11 seq⸼; Amos ii⸼ 7); there was no offering without a meal, and no meal without an offering (1 Kings i⸼ 9); at no important Bamah was entertainment wholly wanting, such a ⸨lang:Greek⸩λέσχη⸨/lang⸩ as that in which Samuel feasted Saul, or Jeremiah the Rechabites (1 Sam⸼ ix⸼ 22; Jer⸼ xxxv⸼ 2). To be merry, to eat and drink before Jehovah, is a usual form of speech down to the period of Deuteronomy; even Ezekiel calls the cultus on the high places an ⸨i⸩eating⸨/i⸩ upon the mountains (1 Sam⸼ ix⸼ 13, 19 seq⸼), and in Zechariah the pots in the temple have a special sanctity (Zech⸼ xiv⸼ 20). By means of the meal in presence of Jehovah is established a covenant fellowship on the one hand between Him and the guests, and on the other hand between the guests themselves reciprocally, which is essential for the idea of sacrifice and gives their name to the Shelamim (compare Exod⸼ xviii⸼ 12, xxiv⸼ 11). In ordinary slaughterings this notion is not strongly present, but in solemn sacrifices it was in full vigour. It is God who invites, for the house is His; His also is the gift, which must be brought to Him entire by the offerer before the altar, and the greater portion of which He gives up to His guests only after that. Thus in a certain sense they eat at Godʼs table, and must accordingly prepare or sanctify themselves for it.⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ Even on occasions that, to our way of thinking, seem highly unsuitable, the meal is nevertheless not wanting (Judges xx⸼ 26, xxi⸼ 4; 1 Sam⸼ xiii⸼ 9–12). That perfect propriety was not always observed might be taken for granted, and is proved by Isa⸼ xxviii⸼ 8 even with regard to the temple of Jerusalem⸨fix:: “⸩; “⸨/fix⸩all tables are full of vomit, there is no room.” Hence also Eliʼs suspicion regarding Hannah was a natural one, and by no means so startling as it appears.
⸨in⸩How different from this picture is that suggested by the Priestly Code! Here one no longer remarks that a meal accompanies every sacrifice; eating before Jehovah, which even in Deuteronomy is just the expression for sacrificing, nowhere occurs, or at all events is no act of divine worship. Slaying and sacrificing are no longer coincident, the thank‑offering of which the breast and right shoulder are to be consecrated is something different from the old simple Zebaḥ. But, precisely for this reason, it has lost its former broad significance. The ⸨i⸩mizbéaḥ⸨/i⸩, that is, the place where the ⸨i⸩zebaḥim⸨/i⸩ are to be offered, has been transformed into a ⸨i⸩mizbaḥ ha‑῾olah⸨/i⸩. The burnt‑offering has become quite independent and comes everywhere into the foreground, the sacrifices which are unconnected with a meal altogether predominate,—so much that, as is well known, Theophrastus could declare there were no others among the Jews, who in this way were differentiated from all other nations.⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ Where formerly a thank‑offering which was eaten before Jehovah, and which might with greater clearness be called a sacrificial meal, was prescribed, the Priestly Code, as we shall afterwards see, has made out of it simple dues to the priests, as, for example, in the case of the first‑born and of firstlings. Only in this point it still bears involuntary testimony to the old custom by applying the names ⸨i⸩Todah⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩Neder⸨/i⸩, and ⸨i⸩Nedabah⸨/i⸩, of which the last two in particular must necessarily have a quite general meaning (Lev⸼ xxii⸼ 18; Ezek⸼ xlvi⸼ 12), exclusively to the thank‑offering, while ⸨i⸩Milluim⸨/i⸩ and paschal sacrifice are merely subordinate varieties of it.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ It is probable that Jephthah expected a human creature and not an animal to meet him from his house.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ In the above list of passages no notice is taken of the ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩sacrificium juge⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ of 2 Kings xvi⸼ 15. The statement in 1 Kings iii⸼ 4 is perhaps to be taken along with iii⸼ 15, but does not become at all more credible on that account. Of course it is understood that only those passages are cited here in which mention is made of offerings actually made, and not merely general statements about one or more kinds of offering. The latter could very well fix attention upon the ῾Olah alone without thereby throwing any light upon the question as to the actual practice.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ Exod⸼ x⸼ 25, xviii⸼ 12, xxiv⸼ 5, xxxii⸼ 6; Joshua viii⸼ 31; Judges xx⸼ 26, xxi⸼ 4; 1 Sam⸼ vi⸼ 14 seq⸼, x⸼ 8, xiii⸼ 9–12; 2 Sam⸼ vi⸼ 17 seq⸼, xxiv⸼ 23–25; 1 Kings iii⸼ 15, viii⸼ 63 seq⸼; 2 Kings v⸼ 17, x⸼ 24, 25. The zeugma in Judges xx⸼ 26, xxi⸼ 4 is inconsistent with the older ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩usus lequendi⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩. The proper name for the holocaust appears to be ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩כליל⸨/lang⸩ (Deut⸼ xxxiii⸼ 10; 1 Sam⸼ vii⸼ 9) not ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩עלה⸨/lang⸩. It is impossible to decide whether the sacrificial due in all sorts of ⸨i⸩Zebaḥ⸨/i⸩ was the same; but most probably it was not. Probably the ⸨i⸩Shelamim⸨/i⸩ are a more solemn kind of sacrifice than the simple ⸨i⸩Zebaḥ⸨/i⸩. The word ⸨i⸩fat⸨/i⸩ is used in Gen⸼ iv⸼ 4; Exod⸼ xxiii⸼ 18 in a very general sense. It is not quite clear what is meant by the blessing of the ⸨i⸩Zebaḥ⸨/i⸩ in 1 Sam⸼ ix⸼ 13; perhaps a kind of grace before meat.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ In order to appear before Jehovah the guest adorns himself with clothes and ornaments (Exod⸼ iii⸼ 22, xi⸼ 2 seq⸼, xii⸼ 35 seq⸼; Hos⸼ ii⸼ 15 [A⸼V⸼ 13]; Ezek⸼ xvi⸼ 13; compare Koran, Sur⸼ xx⸼ 61), sanctifies himself (Num⸼ xi⸼ 18), and is sanctified (1 Sam⸼ xvi⸼ 5; Exod⸼ xix⸼ 10, 14). The sacrificial meal is regarded as Kodesh (hallowed), for not only the priests, but all the sanctified persons eat Kodesh (1 Sam⸼ xxi⸼ 5 seq⸼). On what is meant by sanctification light is thrown by 1 Sam⸼ xxi⸼ 5; 2 Sam⸼ xi⸼ 2. Compare ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לא לפנו חנף יבא⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ (Job xiii⸼ 16; Lev⸼ vii⸼ 20; Matt⸼ xxii⸼ 11–13). Jehovah invites the armies of the nations to His sacrifice, for which He delivers over to them some other nation, and calls the Medes, to whom He gives Babylon over, His sanctified ones, that is, His guests (Zeph⸼ i⸼ 7 seq⸼; Jer⸼ xlvi⸼ 10; Ezek⸼ xxxix⸼ 17; Isa⸼ xiii⸼ 3).

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ Porphyry, ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩De Abstin⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ ii⸼ 26. Compare Joseph⸼, ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩C⸼ Ap⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, ii⸼ 13: ⸨lang:Greek⸩οὗτοι εὔχονται ὑειν ἑκατόμβας τοῖς θεοῖς καὶ χρῶνται τοῖς ἱερείοις πρὸς εὐωχίαν⸨/lang⸩.