⸨in⸩2⸼ A peculiar point of view is taken up by Theodor Nöldeke. He grants the premisses that the tabernacle is a fiction, of which the object is to give pre‑existence to the temple and to the unity of worship, but he denies the conclusion that in that case the Priestly Code presupposes the unity of worship as already existing in its day, and therefore is later than Deuteronomy. In his ⸨i⸩Untersuchungen zur Kritik des Alten Testaments⸨/i⸩ (p⸼ 127 seq⸼) he says:—
⸨in⸩“A strong tendency towards unity of worship ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ have arisen as soon as Solomonʼs temple was built. Over against the splendid sanctuary with its imageless worship at the centre of the kingdom of Judah, the older holy places ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ ever have shrunk farther into the background, and that not merely in the eyes of the people, but quite specially also in those of the better classes and of those whose spiritual advancement was greatest (compare Amos iv⸼ 4, viii⸼ 14). If even Hezekiah carried out the unification in Judah with tolerable thoroughness, the effort after it ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ surely have been of very early date; for the determination violently to suppress old sacred usages would not have been easily made, unless this had been long previously demanded by theory. The priests at Jerusalem ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ very specially at an early date have arrived at the conception that their temple with the sacred ark and the great altar was the one true place of worship, and an author has clothed this very laudable effort on behalf of the purity of religion in the form of a law, which certainly in its strictness was quite impracticable (Lev⸼ xvii⸼ 4 seq⸼), and which, therefore, was modified later by the Deuteronomist with a view to practice.”
⸨in⸩What ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ have happened is of less consequence to know than what actually took place. Nöldeke relies solely upon the statement of 2 Kings xviii⸼ 4, 22, that Hezekiah abolished the high places and altars of Jehovah, and said to Judah and Jerusalem, “Before this altar shall ye worship in Jerusalem.” With reference to that statement doubts have already been raised above. How startling was the effect produced at a later date by the similar ordinance of Josiah! Is it likely then that the other, although the earlier, should have passed off so quietly and have left so little mark that the reinforcement of it, after an interval of seventy or eighty years, is not in the least brought into connection with it, but in every respect figures as a new first step upon a path until then absolutely untrodden? Note too how casual is the allusion to a matter which is elsewhere the chief and most favoured theme of the Book of Kings! And there is besides all this the serious difficulty, also already referred to above, that the man from whom Hezekiah must, from the nature of the case, have received the impulse to his reformatory movement, the prophet Isaiah, in one of his latest discourses expressly insists on a ⸨i⸩cleansing⸨/i⸩ merely of the local sanctuaries from molten and graven images, that is to say, does not desire their complete removal. So much at least is certain that, if the alleged fact at present under discussion amounts to anything at all,¹ Hezekiah only made a feeble and wholly ineffectual attempt in this direction, and by no means “carried out the unification in Judah with tolerable thoroughness.” At the same time, one might concede even this last point, and yet not give any ground for the theory at which Nöldeke wishes to arrive.
⸨in⸩For his assumption is that the effort after unity had its old and original seat precisely in the priestly circles of Jerusalem. If the Priestly Code is older than Deuteronomy, then of course the prophetic agitation for reform of worship in which Deuteronomy had its origin ⸨i⸩must⸨/i⸩ have been only the repetition of an older priestly movement in the same direction. But of the latter we hear not a single word, while we can follow the course of the former fairly well from its beginnings in thought down to its issue in a practical result. It was Amos, Hosea, and Isaiah who introduced the movement against the old popular worship of the high places; in doing so they are not in the least actuated by a deep‑rooted preference for the temple of Jerusalem, but by ethical motives, which manifest themselves in them for the first time in history, and which we can see springing up in them before our very eyes: their utterances, though historically occasioned by the sanctuaries of northern Israel, are quite general, and are directed against the cultus as a whole. Of the influence of a point of view even remotely akin to the priestly position that worship in this or that special place is of more value than anywhere else, and on that account alone deserves to be preserved, no trace is to be found in them; their polemic is a purely prophetic one, ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, individual, “theopneust” in the sense that it is independent of all traditional and preconceived human opinions. But the subsequent development is dependent upon this absolutely original commencement, and has its issue, not in the Priestly Code, but in Deuteronomy, a book that, with all reasonable regard for the priests (though not more for those of Jerusalem than for the others), still does not belie its prophetic origin, and above all things is absolutely free from all and every hierocratic tendency. And finally, it was Deuteronomy that brought about the historical result of Josiahʼs reformation. Thus the whole historical movement now under our consideration, so far as it was effective and thereby has come to our knowledge, is in its origin and essence prophetic, even if latterly it may have been aided by priestly influences; and it not merely can, but must be understood from itself. Any older or independent contemporary priestly movement in the same direction remained at least entirely without result, and so also has left no witnesses to itself. Perhaps it occurs to us that the priests of Jerusalem must after all have been the first to catch sight of the goal, the attainment of which afterwards brought so great advantage to themselves, but it does not appear that they were so clever beforehand as we are after the event. At least there are no other grounds for the hypothesis of a long previously latent tendency towards centralisation on the part of the Jerusalem priesthood beyond the presumption that the Priestly Code must chronologically precede, not Deuteronomy merely, but also the prophets. For the sake of this presumption there is constructed a purely abstract (and as such perfectly irrefragable) possibility that furnishes a door of escape from the historical probability, which nevertheless it is impossible to evade.
⸨in⸩How absolutely unknown the Priestly Code continued to be even down to the middle of the exile can be seen from the Books of Kings, which cannot have received their present shape earlier than the death of Nebuchadnezzar. The redactor, who cites the Deuteronomic law and constantly forms his judgment in accordance with it, considered (as we have learned from 1 Kings iii⸼ 2) that the Bamoth were permissible prior to the building of Solomonʼs temple; the tabernacle therefore did not exist for him. Jeremiah, who flourished about a generation earlier, is equally ignorant of it, but—on account of the ark, though not necessarily in agreement with traditional opinion—regards the house of God at Shiloh (whose ruins, it would seem, were at that time still visible) as the forerunner of the temple of Jerusalem, and in this he is followed by the anonymous prophecy of 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 27–36, the comparatively recent date of which appears from the language (ii⸼ 33), and from the circumstance that it anticipates the following threatening in chap⸼ iii⸼ In all these writers, and still more in the case of the Deuteronomist himself, who in chap⸼ xii⸼ actually makes the unity of the cultus dependent on the previous choice of Jerusalem, it is an exceedingly remarkable thing that, if the Priestly Code had been then already a long time in existence, they should have been ignorant of a book so important and so profound in its practical bearings. In ancient Hebrew literature such an oversight could not be made so easily as, in similar circumstances, with the literature of the present day. And how comes it to pass that in the Book of Chronicles, dating from the third century, the Priestly Code suddenly ceases to be, to all outward seeming, dead, but asserts its influence everywhere over the narrative in only too active and unmistakable a way? To these difficulties Nöldeke is unreasonably indifferent. He seems to be of the opinion that the post‑exilian time would not have ventured to take in hand so thoroughgoing an alteration, or rather reconstruction, of tradition as is implied in antedating the temple of Solomon by means of the tabernacle.² But it is, on the contrary, precisely the mark which distinguished the post‑exile writers that they treat in the freest possible manner, in accordance with their own ideas, the institutions of the bygone past, with which their time was no longer connected by any living bond. For what reason does Chronicles stand in the canon at all, if not in order to teach us this?
⸨in⸩But when Nöldeke excuses the ignorance with regard to the tabernacle on the plea that it is a mere creature of the brain,³ he for the moment forgets that there underlies this creation the very real idea of unity of worship, for the sake of which it would surely have been very welcome, to the Deuteronomist, for example, even as a mere idea. It is only the embodiment of the tabernacle that is fancy; the idea of it springs from the ground of history, and it is by its idea that it is to be apprehended. And when Nöldeke finally urges in this connection as a plea for the priority of the Priestly Code that, in spite of the limitation of sacrifice to a single locality, it nevertheless maintains the old provision that every act of killing must be a sacrifice, while Deuteronomy, going a step farther, departs from this, here also his argument breaks down.
⸨in⸩For we read in Lev⸼ xvii⸼, “What man soever there be of the house of Israel that killeth an ox or sheep or goat in the camp, or out of the camp, and bringeth it not to the door of the tabernacle, to offer them as an offering unto the Lord before the tabernacle of the Lord, blood shall be imputed unto that man: he hath shed blood, and that man shall be cut off from among his people: to the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices which they offer in the open field, even that they may bring them to the Lord, to the door of the tabernacle, to the priest, and offer them for peace‑offerings unto the Lord. … And they shall no more offer sacrifices unto devils, after whom they have gone a whoring.” The intention of this prescription is simply and solely to secure the exclusive legitimation of the one lawful place of sacrifice; it is only for this, obviously, that the profane slaughtering outside of Jerusalem, which Deuteronomy had permitted, is forbidden. Plainly the common man did not quite understand the newly drawn and previously quite unknown distinction between the religious and the profane act, and when he slaughtered at home (as he was entitled to do), he in doing so still observed, half‑unconsciously perhaps, the old sacred sacrificial ritual. From this arose the danger of a multiplicity of altars again furtively creeping in, and such a danger is met, in an utterly impracticable way indeed, in Lev⸼ xvii⸼ And it is worth noticing how much this law, which, for the rest, is based upon the Book of Deuteronomy, has grown in the narrowness of its legitimistic mode of viewing things. Deuteronomy thoroughly recognises that offerings, even though offered outside of Jerusalem, are still offered to Jehovah; for the author of Lev⸼ xvii⸼ this is an impossible idea, and he regards such offerings simply as made to devils.⁴ I refuse to believe that any such thing could have been possible for one who lived before the Deuteronomic reformation, or even under the old conditions that were in existence immediately before the exile.
⸨in⸩Lev⸼ xvii⸼, moreover, belongs confessedly to a peculiar little collection of laws, which has indeed been taken up into the Priestly Code, but which in many respects disagrees with it, and particularly in respect of this prohibition of profane slaughterings. With reference to the Priestly Code as a whole, Nöldekeʼs assertion is quite off the mark. The code, on the contrary, already allows slaughter without sacrifice in the precepts of Noah, which are valid not merely for all the world, but also for the Jews. Farther on this permission is not expressly repeated indeed, but it is regarded as a thing of course. This alone can account for the fact that the thank‑offering is treated so entirely as a subordinate affair and the sacrificial meal almost ignored, while in Lev⸼ vii⸼ 22–27 rules are even given for procedure in the slaughter of such animals as are not sacrificed.⁵ Here accordingly is another instance of what we have already so often observed: what is brought forward in Deuteronomy as an innovation is assumed in the Priestly Code to be an ancient custom dating as far back as to Noah. And therefore the latter code is a growth of the soil that has been prepared by means of the former.

⸨in⸩¹ Little importance is to be attached to 2 Kings xviii⸼ 22. The narrative of the Assyrian siege of Jerusalem is not a contemporary one, as appears generally from the entirely indefinite character of the statements about the sudden withdrawal of the Assyrians and its causes, and particularly from xix⸼ 7, 36, 37. For in this passage the meaning certainly is that Sennacherib was assassinated soon after the unsuccessful expedition of 701, but in point of fact he actually reigned until 684 or 681 (Smith, ⸨i⸩Assyrian Eponym Canon⸨/i⸩, pp⸼ 90, 170). Thus the narrator writes not twenty years merely after the event, but so long after it as to make possible the elision of those twenty years: probably he is already under the influence of Deuteronomy. 2 Kings xviii⸼ 4 is certainly of greater weight than 2 Kings xviii⸼ 22. But although highly authentic statements have been preserved to us in the epitome of the Book of Kings, they have all, nevertheless, been subjected not merely to the selection, but also to the revision of the Deuteronomic redactor, and it may very well be that the author thought himself justified in giving his subject a generalised treatment, according to which the cleansing (of the temple at Jerusalem in the first instance) from idols, urged by Isaiah and carried out by Hezekiah, was changed into an abolition of the Bamoth with their Maççeboth and Asherim. It is well known how indifferent later writers are to distinctions of time and degree in the heresy of unlawful worship; they always go at once to the completed product. But in actual experience the reformation was doubtless accomplished step by step. At first we have in Hosea and Isaiah the polemic directed against molten and graven images, then in Jeremiah that against wood and stone, ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, against Maççeboth and Asherim; the movement originated with the prophets, and the chief, or rather the only, weight is to be attached to their authentic testimony.

⸨in⸩² ⸨i⸩Jahrb⸼ für prot⸼ Theol⸼⸨/i⸩, i⸼ p⸼ 352: “And now let me ask whether a document of this kind, presenting, as it does, a picture of the history, land distribution, and sacrificial rites of Israel, as a whole, which in so many particulars departs from the actual truth, can belong to a time in which Israel clung to what was traditional with such timid anxiety?”

⸨in⸩³ ⸨i⸩Unters⸼⸨/i⸩, p⸼ 130: “It must always be remembered that the author in his statements, as in his laws, does not depict actual relations, but in the first instance his own theories and ideals. Hence the glorification of the tabernacle,” &c⸼ &c⸼

⸨in⸩⁴ With reference to these rural demons, compare my note in ⸨i⸩Vakidiʼs Maghazi⸨/i⸩ (Berlin, 1882), p⸼ 113. It is somewhat similar, though not quite the same thing, when the Moslems say that the old Arabs dedicated their worship to the Jinns; and other instances may be compared in which divinities have been degraded to demons.

⸨in⸩⁵ That Lev⸼ vii⸼ 22–27 is not a repetition of the old and fuller regulations about the thank‑offering, but an appendix containing new ones relating to slaughtering, is clear from “the beast of which men offer an offering unto the Lord” (ver⸼ 25), and “in all your dwellings” (ver⸼ 26), as well as from the praxis of Judaism.