⸨in⸩2⸼ In this case also the elements of a decision can only be obtained from the historical documents dating from the pre‑exilic time,—the Books of Judges, Samuel, and Kings on the one hand, and the writings of the prophets on the other. As regards those of the first class, they represent the cultus and sacrifice on all occasions as occupying a large place in the life of the nation and of the individual. But, although it would be wrong to say that absolutely no weight is attached to the ⸨i⸩rite⸨/i⸩, it is certainly not the fact that the main stress is laid upon it; the antithesis is not between ⸨i⸩rite⸨/i⸩ and ⸨i⸩non‑rite⸨/i⸩, but between sacrifice ⸨i⸩to Jehovah⸨/i⸩ and sacrifice ⸨i⸩to strange gods⸨/i⸩, the reverse of what we find in the Priestly Code. Alongside of splendid sacrifices, such as those of the kings, presumably offered in accordance with all the rules of priestly skill, there occur others also of the simplest and most primitive type, as, for example, those of Saul (1 Sam⸼ xiv⸼ 35) and Elisha (1 Kings xix⸼ 21); both kinds are proper if only they be dedicated to the proper deity. Apart from the exilian redaction of the Book of Kings, which reckons the cultus outside of Jerusalem as heretical, it is nowhere represented that a sacrifice could be dedicated to the God of Israel, and yet be illegitimate. Naaman (2 Kings v⸼ 17), it is to be supposed, followed his native Syrian ritual, but this does not in the least impair the acceptability of his offering. For reasons easily explained, it is seldom that an occasion arises to describe the ritual, but when such a description is given it is only with violence that it can be forced into accordance with the formula of the law. Most striking of all is the procedure of Gideon in Judges vi⸼ 19–21, in which it is manifest that the procedure still usual at Ophrah in the time of the narrator is also set forth. Gideon boils a he‑goat and bakes in the ashes cakes of unleavened bread, places upon the bread the flesh in a basket and the broth in a pot, and then the meal thus prepared is burnt in the altar flame. It is possible that instances may have also occurred in which the rule of the Pentateuch is followed, but the important point is that the distinction between legitimate and heretical is altogether wanting. When the Book of Chronicles is compared the difference is at once perceived.
⸨in⸩The impression derived from the historical books is confirmed by the prophets. It is true that in their polemic against confounding worship with religion they reveal the fact that in their day the cultus was carried on with the utmost zeal and splendour, and was held in the highest estimation. But this estimation does not rest upon the opinion that the cultus, as regards its matter, goes back to Moses or to Jehovah Himself, gives to the theocracy its distinctive character, and even constitutes the supernatural priesthood of Israel among the nations, but simply upon the belief that Jehovah must be honoured by His dependents, just as other gods are by their subjects, by means of offerings and gifts as being the natural and (like prayer) universally current expressions of religious homage. The larger the quantity, and the finer the quality, so much the better; but that the merit arising from the presentation depends upon strict observance of etiquette regarded as Jehovahʼs law is not suggested. Thus it is that the prophets are able to ask whether then Jehovah has commanded His people to tax their energies with such exertions? the fact presupposed being that no such command exists, and that no one knows anything at all about a ritual Torah. Amos, the leader of the chorus, says (iv⸼ 4 seq⸼), “Come to Bethel to sin, to Gilgal to sin yet more, and bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days, for so ye like, ye children of Israel.” In passing sentence of rejection upon the value of the cultus he is in opposition to the faith of his time; but if the opinion had been a current one that precisely the cultus was what Jehovah had instituted in Israel, he would not have been able to say, “For so ye like.” “Ye,” not Jehovah; it is an idle and arbitrary worship. He expresses himself still more clearly in v⸼ 21 seq⸼ “I hate, I despise your feasts, and I smell not on your holy days; though ye offer me burnt‑offerings and your gifts, I will not accept them; neither do I regard your thank‑offerings of fatted calves. Away from me with the noise of thy songs, the melody of thy viols I will not hear; but let judgment roll on like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream. Did ye offer unto me sacrifices and gifts in the wilderness the forty years, O house of Israel?” In asking this last question Amos has not the slightest fear of raising any controversy; on the contrary, he is following the generally received belief. His polemic is directed against the praxis of his contemporaries, but here he rests it upon a theoretical foundation in which they are at one with him,—on this, namely, that the sacrificial worship is not of Mosaic origin. Lastly, if ii⸼ 4 be genuine, it teaches the same lesson. By the Law of Jehovah which the people of Judah have despised it is impossible that Amos can have understood anything in the remotest degree resembling a ritual legislation. Are we to take it then that he formed his own special private notion of the Torah? How in that case would it have been possible for him to make himself understood by the people, or to exercise influence over them? Of all unlikely suppositions, at all events it is the least likely that the herdsman of Tekoah, under the influence of prophetic tradition (which in fact he so earnestly disclaims), should have taken the Torah for something quite different from what it actually was.
⸨in⸩Hosea, Isaiah, and Micah are in agreement with Amos. The first‑mentioned complains bitterly (iv⸼ 6 seq⸼) that the priests cultivate the system of sacrifices instead of the Torah. The Torah, committed by Jehovah to their order, lays it on them as their vocation to diffuse the knowledge of God in Israel,—the knowledge that He seeks truthfulness and love, justice and considerateness, and no gifts; but they, on the contrary, in a spirit of base self‑seeking, foster the tendency of the nation towards cultus, in their superstitious over‑estimate of which lies their sin and their ruin. “My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge; ye yourselves (ye priests!) reject knowledge, and I too will reject you that ye shall not be priests unto me; seeing ye have forgotten the law of your God, so will I also forget you. The more they are, the more they sin against me; their glory they barter for shame. They eat the sin of my people, and they set their heart on their iniquity.” From this we see how idle it is to believe that the prophets opposed “the Law;” they defend the priestly Torah, which, however, has nothing to do with cultus, but only with justice and morality. In another passage (viii⸼ 11 seq⸼) we read, “Ephraim has built for himself many altars, to sin; the altars are there for him, to sin. How many soever my instructions (torothái) may be, they are counted those of a stranger.” This text has had the unmerited misfortune of having been forced to do service as a proof that Hosea knew of copious writings similar in contents to our Pentateuch. All that can be drawn from the contrast “instead of following my instructions they offer sacrifice” (for that is the meaning of the passage) is that the prophet had never once dreamed of the possibility of cultus being made the subject of Jehovahʼs directions. In Isaiahʼs discourses the well‑known passage of the first chapter belongs to this connection: “To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the Lord. I am weary with the burnt‑offerings of rams and the fat of fed beasts, and I delight not in the blood of bullocks and of lambs and of he‑goats. When ye come to look upon my face, who hath required this at your hands?—to trample my courts!” This expression has long been a source of trouble, and certainly the prophet could not possibly have uttered it if the sacrificial worship had, according to any tradition whatever, passed for being specifically Mosaic. Isaiah uses the word Torah to denote not the priestly but the prophetical instruction (i⸼ 10, ii⸼ 3, v⸼ 24, viii⸼ 16, 20, xxx⸼ 9); as both have a common source and Jehovah is the proper instructor (xxx⸼ 20), this is easily explicable, and is moreover full of instruction as regards the idea involved; the contents of the Priestly Code fit badly in with the Torah of i⸼ 10. Lastly, Micahʼs answer to the peopleʼs question, how a return of the favour of an angry God is to be secured, is of conspicuous significance (vi⸼ 6 seq⸼): “Shall I come before Him with burnt‑offerings, with calves of a year old? Is the Lord pleased with thousands of rams, with ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my first‑born for my transgression, the fruit of my body as atonement for my soul?—It hath been told thee, O man, what is good, and what Jehovah requireth of thee. Nay, it is to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly before thy God.” Although the blunt statement of the contrast between cultus and religion is peculiarly prophetic, Micah can still take his stand upon this, “It hath been told thee, O man, what Jehovah requires.” It is no new matter, but a thing well known, that sacrifices are not what the Torah of the Lord contains.
⸨in⸩That we have not inferred too much from these utterances of the older prophets is clear from the way in which they are taken up and carried on by Jeremiah, who lived shortly before the Babylonian exile. Just as in vi⸼ 19 seq⸼ he opposes the Torah to the cultus, so in vii⸼ 21 seq⸼ he thus expresses himself: “Add your burnt‑offerings to your sacrifices, and eat flesh! For I said nought unto your fathers, and commanded them nought, in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt‑offerings or sacrifices. But this thing commanded I them: hearken to my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people, and walk ye in the way that I shall always teach you, that it may be well with you.” The view indeed, that the prophets (who, from the connection, are the ever‑living voice to which Israel is to hearken) are the proper soul of the theocracy, the organ by which Jehovah influences and rules it, has no claim to immemorial antiquity. But no stress lies upon the positive element here; enough that at all events Jeremiah is unacquainted with the Mosaic legislation as it is contained in the Priestly Code. His ignoring of it is not intentional, for he is far from hating the cultus (xvii⸼ 26). But, as priest and prophet, staying continually in the temple at Jerusalem, he must have known it, if it had existed and actually been codified. The fact is one which it is difficult to get over.
⸨in⸩Thus the historical witnesses, particularly the prophets, decide the matter in favour of the Jehovistic tradition. According to the universal opinion of the pre‑exilic period, the cultus is indeed of very old and (to the people) very sacred usage, but not a Mosaic institution; the ritual is not the main thing in it, and is in no sense the subject with which the Torah deals.¹ In other words, no trace can be found of acquaintance with the Priestly Code, but, on the other hand, very clear indications of ignorance of its contents.

⸨in⸩¹ That the priests were not mere teachers of law and morals, but also gave ritual instruction (⸨i⸩e⸼g⸼⸨/i⸩, regarding cleanness and uncleanness), is of course not denied by this. All that is asserted is that in pre‑exilian antiquity the priestsʼ own praxis (at the altar) never constituted the contents of the Torah, but that their Torah always consisted of instructions to the laity. The distinction is easily intelligible to those who choose to understand it.