⸨in⸩1⸼ It may, however, seem as if hitherto it had only been ⸨i⸩asserted⸨/i⸩ that the tabernacle rests on an historical fiction. In truth it is proved; but yet it may be well to add some things which have indeed been said long before now, but never as yet properly laid to heart. The subject of discussion, be it premised, is the tabernacle of the Priestly Code; for some kind of tent for the ark there may well have been: in fact, tents were in Palestine the earliest dwellings of idols (Hos⸼ ix⸼ 6), and only afterwards gave place to fixed houses; and even the Jehovistic tradition (although not J) knows of a sacred tent⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ in connection with the Mosaic camp, and outside it, just as the older high places generally had open sites without the city. The question before us has reference exclusively to the particular tent which, according to Exod⸼ xxv⸼ seq⸼, was erected at the command of God as the basis of the theocracy, the pre‑Solomonic central sanctuary, which also in outward details was the prototype of the temple. At the outset its very possibility is doubtful. Very strange is the contrast between this splendid structure, on which the costliest material is lavished and wrought in the most advanced style of Oriental art, and the soil on which it rises, in the wilderness amongst the native Hebrew nomad tribes, who are represented as having got it ready offhand, and without external help. The incompatibility has long been noticed, and gave rise to doubts as early as the time of Voltaire. These may, however, be left to themselves; suffice it that Hebrew tradition, even from the time of the judges and the first kings, for which the Mosaic tabernacle was strictly speaking intended, knows nothing at all about it.
⸨in⸩It appears a bold thing to say so when one sees how much many a modern author who knows how to make a skilful use of the Book of Chronicles has to tell about the tabernacle. For in 2 Chron⸼ i⸼ 3 seq⸼ we are told that Solomon celebrated his accession to the throne with a great sacrificial feast at Gibeon, because the tabernacle and the brazen altar of Moses were there. In like manner in 1 Chron⸼ xxi⸼ 29 it is said that David offered sacrifice indeed on the threshing‑floor of Araunah, but that Jehovahʼs dwelling‑place and the legitimate altar were at that time at Gibeon; and further (xvi⸼ 39), that Zadok, the legitimate high priest, officiated there. From these data the Rabbins first, and in recent times Keil and Movers especially, have constructed a systematic history of the tabernacle down to the building of the temple. Under David and Solomon, as long as the ark was on Mount Zion, the tabernacle was at Gibeon, as is also shown by the fact that (2 Sam⸼ xxi⸼ 6, 9) offerings were sacrificed to Jehovah there. Before that it was at Nob, where ephod and shewbread (1 Sam⸼ xxi⸼) are mentioned, and still earlier, from Joshuaʼs time onward, it was at Shiloh. But these were only its permanent sites, apart from which it was temporarily set up now here, now there, saving by its rapidity of movement—one might almost say ubiquity—the unity of the cultus, notwithstanding the variety and great distances of the places at which that cultus was celebrated. In every case in which a manifestation of Jehovah and an offering to Him are spoken of, the tabernacle must be tacitly understood.⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩
⸨in⸩The dogmatic character of this way of making history, and the absurd consequences to which it leads, need not in the meantime be insisted on; what is of greatest importance is that the point from which it starts is in the last degree insecure; for the statement of Chronicles that Solomon offered the offering of his accession upon the altar of the tabernacle at Gibeon is in contradiction with that of the older parallel narrative of 1 Kings iii⸼ 1–4. The latter not only is silent about the Mosaic tabernacle, which is alleged to have stood at Gibeon, but expressly says that Solomon offered upon a high place (as such), and ⸨i⸩excuses him for this⸨/i⸩ on the plea that at that time no house to the name of Jehovah had as yet been built. That the Chronicler draws from this narrative is certain on general grounds, and is shown particularly by this, that he designates the tabernacle at Gibeon by the name of Bamah—a ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩contradictio in adjecto⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ which is only to be explained by the desire to give an authentic interpretation of “the great Bamah at Gibeon” in 1 Kings iii⸼ Here, as elsewhere, he brings the history into agreement with the Law: the young and pious Solomon can have offered his sacrifice only at the legal place, which therefore must be that high place at Gibeon. Along with 2 Chron⸼ i⸼ 3 seq⸼ also fall the two other statements (1 Chron⸼ xvi⸼ 39, xxi⸼ 29), both of which are dependent on that leading passage, as is clearly revealed by the recurring phrase “the Bamah of Gibeon.” The tabernacle does not elsewhere occur in Chronicles; it has not yet brought its consequences with it, and not yet permeated the historical view of the author. He would certainly have experienced some embarrassment at the question whether it had previously stood at Nob, for he lays stress upon the connection between the legitimate sanctuary and the legitimate Zadok‑Eleazar priestly family, which it is indeed possible to assume for Shiloh, but not for Nob.⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩
⸨in⸩The fact that Chronicles represents the Israelite history in accordance with the Priestly Code has had the effect of causing its view of that history to be involuntarily taken as fundamental, but ought much rather to have caused it to be left altogether out of account where the object is to ascertain what was the real and genuine tradition. The Books of Judges and Samuel make mention indeed of many sanctuaries, but never among them of the tabernacle, the most important of all. For the single passage where the name Ohel Moed occurs (1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 22) is badly attested, and from its contents open to suspicion.⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ Of the existence of the ark of Jehovah there certainly are distinct traces towards the end of the period of the judges (compare 1 Sam⸼ iv⸼–vi⸼) But is the ark a guarantee of the existence of the tabernacle? On the contrary, its whole history down to the period of its being deposited in the temple of Solomon is a proof that it was regarded as quite independent of any tent specially consecrated for its reception. But this abolishes the notion of the Mosaic tabernacle; for according to the law, the two things belong necessarily to each other; the one cannot exist without the other; both are of equally great importance. The tabernacle must everywhere accompany the symbol of its presence; the darkness of the holy of holies is at the same time the life‑element of the ark; only under compulsion of necessity, and even then not except under the covering of the curtains, does it leave its lodging during a march, only to return to it again as soon as the new halting‑place is reached. But according to 1 Sam⸼ iv⸼ seq⸼, on the other hand, it is only the ark that goes to the campaign; it alone falls into the hands of the Philistines. Even in chap⸼ v⸼, where the symbol of Jehovah is placed in the temple of Dagon at Ashdod, not a word is said of the tabernacle or of the altar which is necessarily connected with it; and chap⸼ vi⸼ is equally silent, although here the enemy plainly gives back the whole of his sacred spoil. It is assumed that the housing of the ark was left behind at Shiloh. Very likely; but that was not the Mosaic tabernacle, the inseparable companion of the ark. In fact, the narrator speaks of a permanent house at Shiloh with doors and doorposts; that possibly may be an anachronism⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ (yet why?); but so much at least may be inferred from it that he had not any idea of the tabernacle, which, however, would have had to go with the ark to the field. If on this one occasion only an illegal exception to the Law was made, why in that case was not the ark, at least after its surrender, again restored to the lodging from which, strictly speaking, it ought never to have been separated at all? Instead of this it is brought to Bethshemesh, where it causes disaster, because the people show curiosity about it. Thence it comes to Kirjathjearim, where it stays for many years in the house of a private person. From here David causes it to be brought to Jerusalem,—one naturally supposes, if one thinks in the lines of the view given in the Pentateuch and in Chronicles, in order that it may be at last restored to the tabernacle, to be simultaneously brought to Jerusalem. But no thought of this, however obvious it may seem, occurs to the king. In the first instance, his intention is to have the ark beside himself in the citadel; but he is terrified out of this, and, at a loss where else to put it, he at last places it in the house of one of his principal people, Obed‑Edom of Gath. Had he known anything about the tabernacle, had he had any suspicion that it was standing empty at Gibeon, in the immediate neighbourhood, he would have been relieved of all difficulty. But inasmuch as the ark brings blessing to the house of Obed‑Edom,—the ark, be it remembered, in the house of a soldier and a Philistine, yet bringing down, not wrath, but blessing,⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩—the king is thereby encouraged to persevere after all with his original proposal, and establish it upon his citadel. And this he does in a tent he had caused to be made for it (2 Sam⸼ vi⸼ 17), which tent of David in Zion continued to be its lodging until the temple was built.
⸨in⸩Some mention of the tabernacle, had it existed, would have been inevitable when the temple took its place. That it did not serve as the model of the temple has already been said; but it might have been expected at least that in the account of the building of the new sanctuary some word might have escaped about the whereabouts of the old. And this expectation seems to be realised in 1 Kings viii⸼ 4, which says that when the temple was finished there were brought into it, besides the ark, the Ohel Moed and all the sacred vessels that were therein. Interpreters hesitate as to whether they ought to understand by the Ohel Moed the tent of the ark upon Zion, to which alone reference has been made in the preceding narrative (1 Kings i⸼ 39, ii⸼ 28–30), or whether it is the Mosaic tent, which, according to Chronicles, was standing at Gibeon, but of which the Book of Kings tells nothing, and also knows nothing (iii⸼ 2–4). It is probable that the author of viii⸼ 4 mixed up both together; but we have to face the following alternative. Either the statement belongs to the original context of the narrative in which it occurs, and in that case the Ohel Moed can only be the tent on Mount Zion, or the Ohel Moed of 1 Kings viii⸼ 4 is the Mosaic tabernacle which was removed from Gibeon into Solomonʼs temple, and in that case the allegation has no connection with its context, and does not hang together with the premisses which that furnishes; in other words, it is the interpolation of a later hand. The former alternative, though possible, is improbable, for the name Ohel Moed occurs absolutely nowhere in the Books of Judges, Samuel, and Kings (apart from the interpolation in 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 22 ⸨i⸩b⸨/i⸩), and particularly it is not used to denote Davidʼs tent upon Mount Zion; and, moreover, that tent had received too little of the consecration of antiquity, and according to 2 Sam⸼ vii⸼ was too insignificant and provisional to be thought worthy of preservation in the temple. But if the Ohel Moed is here (what it everywhere else is) the tabernacle, as is indicated also by the sacred vessels, then the verse is, as has been said, an interpolation. The motive for such a thing is easily understood; the same difficulty as that with which we set out must have made it natural for any Jew who started from the ideas of the Pentateuch to look for the tabernacle here, and, if he did not find it, to introduce it. Yet even the interpolation does not remove the difficulties. Where is the Mosaic altar of burnt‑offering? It was quite as important and holy as the tabernacle itself; even in Chronicles it is invariably mentioned expressly in connection with it, and did not deserve to be permitted to go to ruin at Gibeon, which, from another point of view, would also have been extremely dangerous to the unity of the sacrificial worship. Further, if the sacred vessels were transferred from the tabernacle to the temple, why then was it that Solomon, according to 1 Kings vii⸼, cast a completely new set?⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ The old ones were costly enough, in part even costlier than the new, and, moreover, had been consecrated by long use. It is clear that in Solomonʼs time neither tabernacle, nor holy vessels, nor brazen altar of Moses had any existence.
⸨in⸩But if there was no tabernacle in the time of the last judges and first kings, as little was it in existence during the whole of the previous period. This is seen from 2 Sam⸼ vii⸼, a section with whose historicity we have here nothing to do, but which at all events reflects the view of a pre‑exilian author. It is there told that David, after he had obtained rest from all his enemies, contemplated building a worthy home for the ark, and expressed his determination to the prophet Nathan in the words, “I dwell in a house of cedar, and the ark of God within curtains.” According to vi⸼ 17, he can only mean the tent which he had set up, that is to say, not the Mosaic tabernacle, which, moreover, according to the description of Exod⸼ xxv⸼ seq⸼, could not appropriately be contrasted with a timber erection, still less be regarded as a mean structure or unworthy of the Deity, for in point of magnificence it at least competed with the temple of Solomon. Nathan at first approves of the kingʼs intention, but afterwards discountenances it, saying that at present God does not wish to have anything different from that which He has hitherto had. “I have dwelt in no house since the day that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt, but have wandered about under tent and covering.” Nathan also, of course, has not in his eye the Mosaic tabernacle as the present lodging of the ark, but Davidʼs tent upon Zion. Now he does not say that the ark has formerly been always in the tabernacle, and that its present harbourage is therefore in the highest degree unlawful, but, on the contrary, that the present state of matters is the right one,—that until now the ark has invariably been housed under an equally simple and unpretentious roof. As Davidʼs tent does not date back to the Exodus, Nathan is necessarily speaking of changing tents and dwellings; the reading of the parallel passage in 1 Chron⸼ xvii⸼ 5, therefore, correctly interprets the sense. There could be no more fundamental contradiction to the representation contained in the Pentateuch than that embodied in these words: the ark has not as its correlate a single definite sacred tent of state, but is quite indifferent to the shelter it enjoys—has frequently changed its abode, but never had any particularly fine one. Such has been the state of matters since the time of Moses.
⸨in⸩Such is the position of affairs as regards the tabernacle; if it is determined that the age of the Priestly Code is to hang by these threads, I have no objection. The representation of the tabernacle arose out of the temple of Solomon as its root, in dependence on the sacred ark, for which there is early testimony, and which in the time of David, and also before it, was sheltered by a tent. From the temple it derives at once its inner character and its central importance for the cultus as well as its external form.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ It is never, however, employed for legislative purposes, but is simply a shelter for the ark; it stands without the camp, as the oldest sanctuaries were wont to do outside the cities. It is kept by Joshua as ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩ædituus⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, who sleeps in it, as did Samuel the ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩ædituus⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ of Eli.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ Josh⸼ xxiv⸼ 24, 33 (LXX): after the death of Joshua and Eleazar, ⸨lang:Greek⸩⸨i⸩λαβόντες οἰ υἱοὶ Ἰσραηλ τὴν κιβωτὸν τοῦ θεοῦ περιεφέροσαν ἐν ἐαυτοῖς.⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ After J⸼ Buxtorf and Sal⸼ van Til (⸨lang:Dutch⸩Ugol⸼⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Dutch⸩⸨i⸩Thes⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ viii⸼), this theory has been worked out specially by Movers. See, on the other hand, De Wette, ⸨lang:German⸩⸨i⸩Beiträge⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, p⸼ 108 seq⸼, and Vatke, ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩ut supra⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, p⸼ 316, note.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ Of the priests at Nob, Abiathar alone escaped the massacre (1 Sam⸼ xxii⸼); Zadok therefore was not one of them.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ The passage does not occur in the LXX, and everywhere else in 1 Sam⸼ i⸼–iii⸼ the sanctuary of Shiloh is called hēkal, that is to say, certainly not a tent.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ Compare similar passages in Josh⸼ vi⸼ 19, 24, ix⸼ 27, where the very anachronism shows that the idea of the tabernacle was unknown to the narrator. That, moreover, a permanent house did actually exist then at Shiloh follows from the circumstance that Jeremiah (vii⸼ 12) speaks of its ruins. For he could not regard any other than a pre‑Solomonic sanctuary as preceding that of Jerusalem; and besides, there is not the faintest trace of a more important temple having arisen at Shiloh within the period of the kings.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ The Chronicler has good reason for making him a Levite. But Gath without any qualifying epithet, and particularly in connection with David, is the Philistine Gath, and Obed‑Edom belongs to the bodyguard, which consisted chiefly of foreigners and Philistines. His name, moreover, is hardly Israelite.

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ The brazen altar cast by Solomon (1 Kings viii⸼ 64; 2 Kings xvi⸼ 14, 15) is not now found in the inventory of the temple furniture in 1 Kings vii⸼; but originally it cannot have been absent, for it is the most important article. It has therefore been struck out in order to avoid collision with the brazen altar of Moses. The deletion is the negative counterpart to the interpolation of the tabernacle in 1 Kings viii⸼ 4.