THE BOOK OF JUBILEES

｟i｠Moses receives the tables of the law and instruction on past and future history which he is to inscribe in a book,｟/i｠ 1–4.
｟i｠Apostasy of Israel,｟/i｠ 5–9.
｟i｠Captivity of Israel and Judah,｟/i｠ 10–13.
｟i｠Return of Judah and rebuilding of the temple,｟/i｠ 15–18.
｟i｠Mosesʼ prayer for Israel,｟/i｠ 19–21.
｟i｠Godʼs promise to redeem and dwell with them,｟/i｠ 22–5, 28.
｟i｠Moses bidden to write down the future history of the world (the Book of Jubilees?),｟/i｠ 26.
｟i｠And an angel to write down the law,｟/i｠ 27.
｟i｠This angel takes the heavenly chronological tablets to dictate therefrom to Moses,｟/i｠ 29.

｟in｠｟sc｠This｟/sc｠ is the history of the division of the days of the law and of the testimony, of the events of the years, of their (year) weeks, of their Jubilees throughout all the years of the world, as the Lord spake to Moses on Mount Sinai when he went up to receive the tables of the law and of the commandment, according to the voice of God as he said unto him, ‘Go up to the top of the Mount.’

｟in｠1¹ And it came to pass in the first year of the exodus of the children of Israel out of Egypt, in the third month, on the sixteenth day of the month, that God spake to Moses, saying: ‘Come up to Me on the Mount, and I will give thee two tables of stone of the law and of the commandment, which I have written, that thou mayst teach them.’
² And Moses went up into the mount of God, and the glory of the Lord abode on Mount Sinai, and a cloud overshadowed it six days.
³ And He called to Moses on the seventh day ｟b｠out of｟/b｠ the midst of the cloud, and the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a flaming fire on the top of the mount.
⁴ And Moses was on the Mount forty days and forty nights, and God taught him the earlier and the later history of the division of all the days of the law and of the testimony.
⁵ And He said: ‘Incline thine heart to every word which I shall speak to thee on this mount, and write them in a book in order that their generations may see how I have not forsaken them for all the evil which they have wrought in ｟b｠transgressing｟/b｠ the covenant which I establish between Me and thee for their generations this day on Mount Sinai.
⁶ And thus it will come to pass when all these things come upon them, that they will recognise that I am more righteous than they in all their judgments and in all their actions, and they will recognise that I have been truly with them.
⁷ And do thou write for thyself all these words which I declare unto thee this day, for I know their rebellion and their stiff neck, before I bring them into the land of which I sware to their fathers, to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob, saying: ‘Unto your seed will I give a land flowing with milk and honey.
⁸ And they will eat and be satisfied, and they will turn to strange gods, to (gods) which cannot deliver them from aught of their tribulation: and this witness shall be heard for a witness against them.
⁹ For they will forget all My commandments, (even) all that I command them, and they will walk after the Gentiles, and after their uncleanness, and after their shame, and will serve their gods, and these will prove unto them an offence and a tribulation and an affliction and a snare.
¹⁰ And many will perish and they will be taken captive, and will fall into the hands of the enemy, because they have forsaken My ordinances and My commandsments, and the festivals of My covenant, and My sabbaths, and My holy place which I have hallowed for Myself in their midst, and My tabernacle, and My sanctuary, which I have hallowed for Myself in the midst of the land, that I should set my name upon it, and that it should dwell (there).