｟i｠Noah plants a vineyard and offers a sacrifice, 1–5.｟/i｠
｟i｠Becomes drunk and exposes his person, 6–9.｟/i｠
｟i｠The cursing of Canaan and blessing of Shem and Japheth, 10–12｟/i｠ (cf⸼ Gen⸼ ix⸼ 20–8).
｟i｠Noahʼs sons and grandsons and their cities, 13–19.｟/i｠
｟i｠Noah teaches his sons regarding the causes of the deluge and admonishes them to avoid the eating of blood and murder, to keep the law regarding fruit trees and let the land lie fallow every seventh year, as Enoch had directed, 20–39.｟/i｠

｟in｠7¹ And in the seventh week in the first year thereof, in this jubilee, Noah planted vines on the mountain on which the ark had rested, name Lûbâr, one of the Ararat Mountains, and they produced fruit in the fourth year, and he guarded their fruit, and gathered it in this year in the seventh month.
² And he made wine therefrom and put it into a vessel, and kept it until the fifth year, until the first day, on the new moon of the first month.
³ And he celebrated with joy the day of this feast, and he made a burnt sacrifice unto the Lord, one young ox and one ram, and seven sheep, each a year old, and a kid of the goats, that he might make atonement thereby for himself and his sons.
⁴ And he prepared the kid first, and placed some of its blood on the flesh that was on the altar which he had made, and all the fat he laid on the altar where he made the burnt sacrifice, and the ox and the ram and the sheep, and he laid all their flesh upon the altar.
⁵ And he placed all their offerings mingled with oil upon it, and afterwards he sprinkled wine on the fire which he had previously made on the altar, and he placed incense on the altar and caused a sweet savour to ascend ｟b｠acceptable｟/b｠ before the Lord his God.
⁶ And he rejoiced and drank of this wine, he and his children with joy.
⁷ And it was evening, and he went into his tent, and being drunken he lay down and slept, and was uncovered in his tent as he slept.
⁸ And Ham saw Noah his father naked, and went forth and told his two brethren without.
⁹ And Shem took his garment and arose, he and Japheth, and they placed the garment on their shoulders and ｟b｠went backward｟/b｠ and covered the shame of their father, and their faces were backward.
¹⁰ And Noah awoke from his sleep and knew all that his younger son had done unto him, and he cursed his son and said: ‘Cursed be Canaan; an enslaved servant shall he be unto his brethren.’
¹¹ And he blessed Shem, and said: ‘Blessed be the Lord God of Shem, and Canaan shall be his servant.
¹² 