⸨cen⸩INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.

⸨in⸩⸨sc⸩The⸨/sc⸩ number of Polyglot editions of the whole Bible which have been printed is sufficiently limited, and the history of them and their promoters is sufficiently interesting, to deserve passing notice in the foremost pages of the Prolegomenon to this, the latest work of the kind. The Polyglot Bibles already published vary in utility and excellence with their authors, with the place and period of their production, with the texts and versions produced, and with the general plan and execution thereof. They may be thus briefly described:—
⸨in⸩I⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, complectentia Vetus Testamentum Hebraico, Græco, et Latino idiomate; Novum Testamentum Græcum et Latinum, et vocabularium Hebraicum et Chaldaicum Veteris Testamenti, cum Grammaticâ Hebraicâ, necnon Dictionario Græco; studio, operâ et impensis Cardinalis Francisci Ximenez de Cisneros. Compluti, 1514⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩1517⸨/lang⸩. Six vols⸼, folio. This is called the Complutensian Polyglot, and its chief promoter and patron was Cardinal Ximenes. The following learned men were employed in the undertaking:—Ælius Antonius Nebrissensis, Demetrius Ducas, Ferdinandus Pincianus, Lopez de Stunica, Alfonsus de Xamora, Paulus Coronellus, and Johannes de Vergera, a physician of Alcala or Complutum.
⸨in⸩II⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, Hebraice, Chaldaice, Græce et Latine. Philippi II⸼ Regis Catholici jussu edita ac impressa; cura Benedicti Ariæ Montani, Christophorus Plantinus excudebat. Antverpiæ, 1569⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩1572⸨/lang⸩. Eight vols⸼, folio. This is generally known as the Antwerp Polyglot; sometimes as the ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Regia⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩. The paper and type are superior to those of the Complutensian. No fewer than sixty learned men were occupied on this work, which was at one time highly applauded, at another time ignominiously denounced. The Pope had declared this to be a work truly regal, “⸨lang:Latin⸩Opus vere regium⸨/lang⸩⸨fix:”, ⸩,” ⸨/fix⸩and the doctors of Paris, Madrid and Louvain proceeded so far as to place it in the catalogue of wonders. Subsequently the Editor, Montanus, was required to make an apology for his heresy; and the bitterness of his brethren grew to such a pitch, that he escaped but with difficulty the horrors of the Inquisition. The projector of the Antwerp Polyglot was Plantin, the printer; and in this instance, it would appear, it was the printer who incurred the pecuniary risk. (This is not generally the case.) Plantin soon discovered that he had entered upon an expensive undertaking, and found himself in want of funds to enable him to defray his expenses. He applied to Philip II⸼ of Spain, and, through the influence of the celebrated Cardinal Spinosa, obtained the money ⸨i⸩as a loan⸨/i⸩⸨fix:; ⸩⸨i⸩; ⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩and then, presently, overwhelmed with a debt which he made every effort, unsuccessfully, to repay, he struggled on beneath the burden until he stumbled and fell into a premature grave.
⸨in⸩III⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Sacra Biblia⸨/i⸩, Hebraice, Græce et Latine, cum annotationibus Francisci Vatabli, Hebraicæ Linguæ quondam Professoris Regii Lutetiæ. Latina Interpretatio duplex est; altera vetus, altera nova. Omnia cum editione Complutensi diligenter collata; additis in margine, quos Vatablus in suis annotationibus nonnunquam omiserat, idiotismis verborumque difficiliorum radicibus. Ex Offic⸼ Sanctandreana, Heidelb⸼, 1586⸨/lang⸩. Three vols⸼, folio. This is commonly known as Vatableʼs Bible. The editorship has been ascribed by some to Robert Stephen the younger; by others, with greater propriety, to Bertramus, Professor of Hebrew at Geneva. Reprints of this Polyglot appeared in 1599 and 1616.
⸨in⸩IV⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Opus Quadripartitum Sacræ Scripturæ⸨/i⸩, continens S⸼ Biblia sive Libros Veteris et Novi Testamenti omnes, quadruplici lingua, Hebraica, Græca, Latina et Germanica. Cura et studio Davidis Wolderi. Hamburg, 1596⸨/lang⸩. Four vols⸼, folio.
⸨in⸩V⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Vetus Testamentum⸨/i⸩⸨fix:: ⸩⸨i⸩: ⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩Hebr⸼, Chald⸼, Gr⸼, Lat⸼, Germ⸼, Sclav⸼, Ital⸼, Saxon⸼, Gallice. ⸨i⸩Novum Testamentum⸨/i⸩ Dni⸼ Nri⸼ Jesu Christi. Syr⸼, Ital⸼, Ebr⸼, Hisp⸼, Gr⸼, Lat⸼, Gall⸼, Angl⸼, Germ⸼, Dan⸼, Bohem⸼, Polon. Studio et labore Eliæ Hutteri, Germani, cum gratia et privilegio Sac⸼ Cœs⸼ Mtis⸼ ad quindecim annos. Norimb⸼ 1591⸨/lang⸩⸨fix:. ⸩, ⸨/fix⸩Three vols⸼, folio. Hutter had meditated a Polyglot edition of the Old and New Testaments in twelve languages, but he never proceeded with the Old Testament farther than the Book of Ruth. The New Testament was completed in twelve languages. This work was reprinted in four vols⸼ ⸨fix:4to⸼⸩4to⸨/fix⸩, 1599⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩1610.
⸨in⸩VI⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, Hebraica, Samaritana, Chaldaica, Græca, Syriaca, Latina, Arabica. Quibus textus originalibus totius Scripturæ Sacræ, quorum pars in editione Complutensi, deinde in Antverpiensi regis sumptibus extat, nunc integri, ex manuscriptis toto fere orbe quæsitis exemplaribus, exhibentur. Lutet⸼ Parisior⸼ 1645⸨/lang⸩. Ten vols⸼, folio. A magnificent edition, but abounding in typographical errors. Dr⸼ Kennicott says⸨fix:, “⸩ “⸨/fix⸩It was the misfortune of our translators to want these very valuable versions, from which the learned have since derived many and eminent advantages for correcting as well as illustrating the Old Testament.” This, which is known as the “Parisian Polyglot⸨fix:”, ⸩,” ⸨/fix⸩was completed by the care and at the expense of Michael Le Jay, who had to endure the persecution of the powerful Cardinal Richelieu, a persecution which ultimately succeeded in working Le Jayʼs humiliation and ruin, and in causing many copies of his valuable work to be sold as waste paper or destroyed. Richelieu is charged with having coveted the honour of being considered the author of this work, and with having, for that purpose, made Le Jay an offer of 1🄁000 crowns, an offer which the latter is said to have rejected; hence the persecution.
⸨in⸩VII⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Quadralingua⸨/i⸩ Veteris Testamenti Hebraici, cum Versionibus e regione positis, utpote versione Græca LXX⸼ Interpretum ex Codice Manuscripto Alexandrino, a J⸼ Ern⸼ Grabio primum evulgata. Item Versione Latina Sebast⸼ Schmidii noviter revisa et textui Hebræo accuratius accommodata, et Germanica beati Lutheri ex ultima beati viri revisione et editione 1544⸨fix:–⸩‑⸨/fix⸩5 expressa. Adjectis textui Hebræo notis Masorethicis, et Græcæ versionæ lectionibus codicis Vaticani; notis philologicis et exegeticis aliis, ut et summariis capitum ac locis parallelis locuplet⸼ ornata. Accurante M⸼ Christ⸼ Reineccio. Sumptibus Hæredum Lanckisianorum. Lipsiæ, 1750⸨/lang⸩. Three vols⸼ folio. This excellent Polyglot was begun as early as 1713. The delay of publication was owing to a part of the MSS⸼ remaining undiscovered till 1747. Besides the Latin version of Schmid, it contains the German version of Luther from the edition of 1554⸨fix:–⸩‑⸨/fix⸩5, with marginal notes and parallel passages. Dr⸼ A⸼ Clarke says that it is an excellent and useful work edited with great care and accuracy.
⸨in⸩VIII⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, complectentia Textus Originales, Hebraicum cum Pentateucho Samaritano, Chaldaicum, Græcum, Versionumque antiquarum Samaritanæ, Græcæ ⸨fix:LXXII⸼⸩LXXII⸨/fix⸩ Interpretum, Chaldaicæ, Syriacæ, Arabicæ, Æthiopicæ, Persicæ, Vulgatæ Latinæ quicquid comparari poterat. Cum textuum et Versionum Orientalium Translationibus Latinis. Ex vetustiss⸼ MSS⸼ undique conquisitis, optimisque exemplaribus impressis summâ fide collatis. Quæ in prioribus editionibus deerant, suppleta: multa antehac inedita, de novo adjecta; omnia eo ordine disposita, ut Textus cum Versionibus uno intuitu conferri possit. Cum apparatu, Appendicibus, Tabulis, Variis Lectionibus, Annotationibus, Indicibus, etc⸼ Opus totum in sex Tomos tributum. Edidit Brianus Waltonus, S⸼T⸼D⸼ Imprimebat Thomas Roycroft. Londini, 1657⸨/lang⸩. Six vols⸼ folio.—⸨lang:Latin⸩Castelli (E⸼), ⸨i⸩Lexicon Heptaglotton⸨/i⸩ Hebraicum, Chaldaicum, Syriacum, Samaritanum, Æthiopicum, Arabicum, ⸨i⸩conjunctim⸨/i⸩, et Persicum ⸨i⸩separatim⸨/i⸩, etc⸼, etc⸼ Londini, 1669⸨/lang⸩. Two vols⸼ folio.
⸨in⸩This is the most valuable and convenient of all the Polyglots hitherto produced. Nine languages are found in it, though no one book of the Bible is printed in so many. Besides all the languages in which the Scriptures had been published in former Polyglots, this one contains the Psalms, Solomonʼs Song, and the New Testament in Æthiopic, and the four Gospels in Persic. The Chaldee Paraphrase is also more complete than in any former publication. The learned Bishop was rewarded for his colossal labour. He was patronised by the Protector, as well as by King Charles II⸼, and richly did he deserve the patronage of them both. The double dedication, of which so much has been said, was without question a prudent yielding to the inspired injunction of the Apostle Paul:—⸨lang:Greek⸩Πᾶσα ψυχὴ ἐξουσίαις ὑπερεχούσαις ὑποτασσέσθω· οὐ γὰρ ἔστιν ἐξουσία εἰ μὴ ὑπὸ θεοῦ⸨/lang⸩. “Let every soul subject himself to the higher powers, for there is no power except under God, and the existing powers are ordained by God.” Castell, whose Lexicon to Bishop Waltonʼs Polyglot is now admitted to be the most elaborate work of the kind ever produced, was less fortunate than the Bishop. Castell, for seventeen years of his life, laboured at his book, and at his own expense employed and maintained no fewer than fourteen literary men. Ultimately, having spent £1🄅000, and being involved in debt, he laid his case before King Charles II⸼ The king graciously recommended his work to the archbishops and bishops; these officially recommended it to their clergy; and the clergy, the working body, by dint of strenuous efforts raised the small sum of £700. At the death of Castell, about 100 copies of his most meritorious work passed into the hands of Compton, then Bishop of London. Had it not been for this providential circumstance, the whole might have perished; for, of the rest, some were gnawed by rats and sold as waste paper, others perished in the memorable fire of London.
⸨in⸩IX⸼ ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, Textus Archetypos Versionesque præcipuas, ab Ecclesia antiquitus receptas complectentia. ⸨i⸩Impensis S⸼ Bagster⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩Londini⸨/i⸩, 1818⸨fix:–⸩‑⸨/fix⸩21⸨/lang⸩. One vol⸼ 4to⸼ and five vols⸼ small 8vo⸼ Another edition appeared in 1831, exhibiting eight languages at one view, with Prolegomena by the Rev⸼ Dr⸼ Samuel Lee, Professor of Hebrew at the University of Cambridge. This is entitled:—⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Biblia Sacra Polyglotta⸨/i⸩, Textus Archetypos, Versionesque præcipuas ab Ecclesia antiquitus receptas; necnon versiones recentiores Anglicanam, Germanicam, Italicam, Gallicam et Hispanicam complectentia. Accedunt Prolegomena in Textuum Archetyporum Versionumque antiquarum crisin literalem. Auctore Samuele Lee, S⸼T⸼B⸼ Londini, S⸼ Bagster⸨/lang⸩. The Prolegomena, however, have no particular reference to the texts, which, as far as we have been able to ascertain, are scarcely alluded to. An able reviewer of this Polyglot remarks:—“Had Mr⸼ Bagster commenced the Bible as a complete work in eight languages, it is probable that he would not have succeeded in his undertaking: instead of this he first published each of the versions separately; the English and one or two of the others were remarkably successful, and when the eight were placed together they formed an elegant and compact volume, and the work deservedly obtained a great reputation at home and abroad.”
⸨in⸩X⸼ ⸨lang:German⸩Polyglotten‑Bibel zum praftiſchen Handgebrauch. Die Heilige Schrift Alten und Neuen Teſtaments in überſichtlicher Nebeneinanderſtellung des Urtextes, der Septuaginta, Vulgata und Luther‑Ueberſeꜩung, ſo wie die wichtigſten Varianten der vornehmſten deutſchen Ueberſeꜩungen; bearbeitet von R⸼ Stier, Dr⸼ der Theologie und Superintendent in Eisleben, und K⸼ G⸼ W⸼ Theile, weiland Dr⸼ und Profeſſor der Theologie in Leipzig⸨/lang⸩. This excellent work has passed through several editions between 1847 and 1864. It consists of five vols⸼ large 8vo⸼ The New Testament is a Triglot only, containing the Greek, the Latin Vulgate, and Lutherʼs German.
⸨in⸩The year 1874 adds another to the comparatively small list just given, viz⸼, The Hexaglot Bible, or ⸨lang:Latin⸩Biblia Hexaglotta⸨/lang⸩, a title which has been assigned to this work, not only to express the number of languages which it presents, but also to distinguish it at once from other Polyglot Bibles. This work, which was commenced by Mr⸼ Henry Cohn, has been in hand for several years. Had it not been for the approval with which the design and general execution of the work met at the hands of a few, the indifference of the multitude as to the success or the failure of an enterprise of this description would have permitted the undertaking to collapse at the very outset. Owing to the generous co‑operation of those few, who thought that such an edition of the Holy Scriptures might be useful in the present age, “when men run to and fro in the earth, and knowledge is increased,” the promoters were enabled to bring out the first two volumes, Vol⸼ I⸼, containing the Pentateuch; Vol⸼ II⸼, the books from Joshua to 2 Kings inclusive. For some time after the appearance of these volumes the work came to a stand‑still, until, in 1871, the active co‑operation of the present publishers, Messrs⸼ Dickinson and Higham, was fortunately secured. The first result of this was the appearance, in 1872, of Vol⸼ III⸼, comprising the books from 1 Chronicles to the Song of Solomon, inclusive (the English order of the Sacred Books being preserved in this volume, as in the others). In 1873, appeared Vol⸼ V⸼, the first of the New Testament, containing the four Gospels; and in 1874 Vol⸼ IV⸼, which embraces the Books from Isaiah to Malachi, and Vol⸼ VI⸼, Acts to Revelation.
⸨in⸩The aim and intention of the promoters and publishers of The Hexaglot Bible is to place within the reach of all as genuine a copy as can be obtained of the Word of God in various languages. The polyglotist, even when no pretension is made to originality of thought, and comparatively little labour is bestowed on the collecting of materials, has an arduous work to do. He requires the best services of the eye, the hand, the head, the heart. He wants an eye that will not readily allow errors to escape its observation, a hand that will correct errors without tampering with the text, a head sufficiently sound and capacious to contain a knowledge of the Word of Truth presented under various aspects, and written in various languages; a heart sufficiently right to love truth in itself, sufficiently large to make an effort to disseminate truth, as far as possible, throughout the world. Very few, we imagine, would have the boldness to assert that those men, whose names have been mentioned above, were actuated by no higher than sordid motives when, in the face of unprecedented difficulties, and when, in some instances, the art of printing was only in its infancy, they betook themselves to the laborious and almost thankless task of printing a Polyglot edition of the Holy Scriptures. Who can doubt that Ximenes, the father of Polyglots, was actuated by higher than worldly motives when, at his own expense and labour, he brought out his marvellous work? Not satisfied with employing learned men to do the work for him, he threw himself so thoroughly into his subject that, at the advanced age of sixty, he made himself master of the Hebrew language! There is a little story recorded in connection with him, which is, perhaps, worthy of being recorded again: “I have often,” says Gomecius, “heard John Brocarius, whose father printed the Complutensian Polyglot relate to his friends, that when the work was finished, he was deputed to carry it to the Cardinal. John Brocarius was then a lad, and having dressed himself in an elegant suit of clothes, he approached Ximenes and delivered the volume into his hands. ‘I render thanks unto thee, O God!’ exclaimed Ximenes, ‘that thou hast protracted my life to the completion of these biblical labours.’” A few weeks afterwards he expired. But his work has lived through three centuries, and still lives to stimulate, not to discourage, those who enter upon similar labours.
⸨in⸩The next point to which we have to draw attention is the arrangement of the text. The Complutensian Polyglot contains in the first four volumes the Hebrew, Vulgate, and Greek text of the Old Testament, in parallel columns, and the Chaldee paraphrase at the bottom of the page, with a Latin translation. The fifth volume contains the Greek New Testament with the Vulgate Latin version in a parallel column; in the margin there is a kind of concordance referring to similar passages in the Old and New Testaments.
⸨in⸩We have not space to enter minutely into details of the order observed in all the Polyglots. For the most part this is indicated in the titles which they bear.
⸨in⸩Bagster presents eight different texts at one view; but he presents the texts in blocks, not in columns, and the effect produced is as singular as it is truthful; it is the exhibition of eight books in one volume. Moreover, the different versions do not always harmonise, ⸨fix:⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩⸩⸨i⸩i⸼ e⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩, do not terminate with the same clauses on the same page; this is a defect, and the type is so small that very few, we imagine, except those whose eyes are young and vigorous, can consult it with comfort.
⸨in⸩It will be found that the Hexaglot Bible is unique in design, the various languages being placed in parallel columns, and so carefully arranged, particularly in the New Testament, that the words representing the same ideas stand as nearly as possible side by side across the whole of the two pages which the six columns occupy. Each column terminates with the same verse; not unfrequently with the same word. The types employed possess the advantage of being bold in character as well as pleasing to the eye. Of the New Testament, the type is even bolder than that of the Old, and it is to be hoped that this typographical excellence will be warmly appreciated.
⸨in⸩We have now to advert to the particular languages introduced into the Hexaglot Bible.
⸨in⸩The value of the original Hebrew and Greek texts and of the ancient Syriac, Greek and Latin versions is incontestable. The value of the various Semitic versions which find place in Waltonʼs Polyglot, is not sufficiently great, and the number of students in Persic, Arabic and Æthiopic is not sufficiently large to command the reproduction of those versions in a modern Polyglot. There are copies enough of these still extant for scholars to consult. And as to the modern versions which find place in Bagsterʼs Polyglot, Diodatiʼs Italian, Scioʼs Spanish, and Greenfieldʼs Hebrew New Testament, if they possess any value—we do not say any intrinsic value, ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ they do possess—but any value as forming part of a Polyglot Bible, it is strange that the learned Professor Lee should have passed over the subject in his elaborate prolegomena. But our object is not to attack the course adopted by others; it is simply to defend the choice of languages made by the promoters of the Hexaglot Bible. Here we have, in the Old Testament as well as in the New, three ancient and three modern languages. In the Old Testament, the original Hebrew occupies column 1; the Septuagint, column 2; the Latin Vulgate, column 3; the English, German and French, columns 4, 5 and 6 respectively. In the New Testament, the Hebrew naturally disappears from column 1, and the original Greek takes its place. Next to the Greek stands that ancient and valuable version, the Syriac Peschito, the other versions retaining the same order of position as in the Old Testament.
⸨in⸩Before entering more fully into the consideration of the particular texts employed in this work, it will be convenient to offer a few observations upon the texts in general.