⸨in⸩1 Samuel ii⸼ 22. The latter clause is wanting in most Greek copies: ⸨lang:Greek⸩καὶ ὅτι συνεκοιμῶντο οἱ υἱοὶ αὐτοῦ μετὰ τῶν γυναικῶν τῶν παρεστηκυιῶν παρὰ τὰς θύρας τῆς σκηνῆς τοῦ μαρτυρίου⸨/lang⸩. A story which the transcriber probably considered too scandalous to be recorded.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ iii⸼ 13. “His sons made themselves vile.” This is enumerated amongst the ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩תקון ספרים⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ or Corrections of the Scribes; for ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩מְקַלְלִים לָהֶם בָּנָיו⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, the original reading is said to have been ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לִי⸨/lang⸩. The Septuagint would certainly lead us to the conclusion that the text has been tampered with, for there we read, ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὅτι κακλογοῦντες θεὸν οἱ υἱοὶ αὐτοῦ⸨/lang⸩. The translator must have read for ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩להם⸨/lang⸩ or ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לי⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אלהים⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xiii⸼ 1. This verse is wanting in the Cod⸼ Vaticanus, ⸨lang:Greek⸩Υἱὸς ἐνιαυτοῦ Σαοὺλ ἐν τῷ βασιλεύειν αὐτόν, καὶ δύο ἔτη ἐβασίλευσεν ἐν Ἰσραήλ⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xvii⸼ 12⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩31. The whole of these verses are wanting in the Cod⸼ Vat⸼ They relate the incident of David, Jesseʼs youngest sonʼs first meeting with Goliath of Gath, and the reproach which the youth received from his eldest brother: “With whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thine heart.” The omission in this case is of considerable importance, because there is no other record of this most interesting story. It will be found that the whole of the missing verses have been supplied in the Hexaglot Bible, with this foot‑note, almost the only note in the entire work: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Desunt hi versus (12⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩32) Cod⸼ Vat⸼, quem Tisch⸼ secutus est. Lacunam explet Alex⸼⸨/lang⸩” From this point in the Hexaglot Bible it will be found that all omissions of importance in the text of Tischendorf have been supplied from other sources, ⸨i⸩within brackets⸨/i⸩. Of this kind are:—
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xvii⸼ 41. The advance of the Philistine, preceded by his shield‑bearer.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xvii⸼ 50. Davidʼs triumph over the Philistine with a sling and a stone.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xvii⸼ 55 to xviii⸼ 6. Davidʼs interview with Saul, which was brought about by Abner; also Jonathanʼs great love for David.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xviii⸼, part of ver⸼ 8 to end of ver⸼ 11. Saulʼs envy of David, and attempt to smite him with his javelin.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xviii⸼ 17⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩19. Saulʼs promise to give his eldest daughter, Merab, to David to wife; and his violation of that promise by giving her to Adriel, the Meholathite.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xviii⸼ 29, 30. Davidʼs behaving himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul before the princes of the Philistines, and the esteem which he gained thereby.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xxiii⸼ 12. Davidʼs enquiry of the Lord, “Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul?” And the Lordʼs answer, “They will deliver thee up.”
⸨in⸩It will be observed that 1 Sam⸼ xxiii⸼ 29 of the English corresponds to chap⸼ xxiv⸼ 1 of the other languages.
⸨in⸩1 Sam⸼ xxix⸼ 10 (part) is in most of the Greek copies, not in the Hebrew. Achish says to David: ⸨i⸩And depart unto the place where I have appointed you, and put no mischievous imagination in thy heart, for thou art good in my sight⸨/i⸩.