⸨cen⸩OF THE LATIN VULGATE.

⸨in⸩Many Latin versions are said (Walton, Proleg⸼ x⸼) to have been in existence at the time of St⸼ Augustine. The most excellent of these was that which bore the threefold title; ⸨lang:Latin⸩Itala⸨/lang⸩ or Italian, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Vulgata⸨/lang⸩ or Common, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Vetus⸨/lang⸩ or Ancient. It is probable that this was in use, in the church of Rome, from the days of the apostles themselves. Jerome first corrected this from the Septuagint, and produced a new translation of the books of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes and Song of Solomon. This version was not considered absolutely authentic in the Christian church. The modern Latin Vulgate was the work of Jerome alone. In his youth he studied Hebrew and Chaldee under the most able scholars of the age, and at the same time made himself master of Greek and Latin. To assist him in his great undertaking he had at hand Origenʼs Hexapla, the Septuagint and the versions of Aquila, Symmachus and Theodotion. But although these were of great assistance to him, Jerome discovered that their defects were too numerous for the Greek to form the basis of his proposed work; he therefore resolved, with the advice and at the request of his friends, to make a new translation into Latin from the original Hebrew text. The undertaking which was of a purely private character, was speedily and happily accomplished. In addition to all the canonical books of the Old Testament which he translated from the Hebrew, he translated from the Greek the books of Judith and Tobit; the other apocryphal books he did not touch. The New Testament, Jerome is said not to have re‑translated, but simply revised. The superior excellence of his work has been justly admitted by Jews as well as by Christians. Bishop Walton informs us that Rabbi Azarias calls Jerome “⸨lang:Latin⸩Interpretem Christianorum⸨/lang⸩ ⸨lang:Greek⸩κατ᾽ ἐξόχην⸨/lang⸩;” and he adds, “⸨lang:Latin⸩Sic Kimchius ad Psalm⸼ cx⸼ vocat Interpretem absolutè, Aben Ezra ad Psalm⸼ iii⸼ Interpretem præputiatorum, R⸼ Jos⸼ Alb⸼ in ⸨i⸩Fundamentum sapientem translatorem⸨/i⸩, Elias Levita, ⸨i⸩doctum Hieronymum⸨/i⸩⸨good⸩.⸨/good⸩⸨/lang⸩”
⸨in⸩To many in the Christian church, Jeromeʼs version at first was unacceptable. The appearance of seeking to undermine the authority of the Septuagint gave offence to sensitive minds, and caused the translator no little sorrow. He managed, however, to surmount the reproaches of friends and the attacks of enemies, and after his death his noble work gradually gained authority and continued in use till the time of Gregory the Great. As to the present Latin Vulgate, Bishop Walton says it is certain that the book of Psalms was not translated by Jerome from the Hebrew; (although he did translate the Psalms from the Hebrew, and that version is still extant amongst his works); but is from the old Septuagint version according to the emendation of Lucian Martyr; the other books are principally from Jeromeʼs translation. As to the authority of the Vulgate in the Church of Rome, it was affirmed at the Council of Trent, Ses⸼ 4, Can⸼ 2, “⸨lang:Latin⸩Authenticam esse et summæ auctoritatis⸨/lang⸩,” and it was decreed that “⸨lang:Latin⸩hæc ipsa vetus et Vulgata editio, quæ longo tot sæculorum usu in ipsa ecclesia probata est, in publicis lectionibus, disputationibus, prædicationibus, et expositionibus pro authentica habeatur, et ut nemo eam rejicere quovis pretextu audeat vel præsumat⸨good⸩.⸨/good⸩⸨/lang⸩” ⸨i⸩This same ancient and Vulgate edition, which by the long use of so many centuries has been approved in the church itself, is to be held authentic in public readings, disputations, sermons and expositions; and no one is to dare or presume to reject it ⸨fix:under⸩und r⸨/fix⸩ any pretext whatever⸨/i⸩. That the real meaning of this decree was not that the Vulgate was infallible, but that it was, in the main, a good translation, and contained nothing contrary to the faith or to sound morals, seems tolerably clear from the fact that Popes Sixtus V⸼ and Clement VIII⸼ subsequently brought out new and revised editions. There was⸨fix::—⸩—⸨/fix⸩
⸨in⸩1st. ⸨lang:Latin⸩Biblia Sacræ Vulgatæ editionis ad Concilii Tridentini præscriptum emendata et a Sixto V⸼ P⸼ M⸼ recognita et approbata. Romæ, ex Typographia Apostolica Vaticana⸨/lang⸩. Folio, 1590.
⸨in⸩2nd. ⸨lang:Latin⸩Biblia Sacra Vulgatæ editionis Sixti V⸼ Pontificis Max⸼ jussu recognita et edita. Romæ, ex Typographia Apostolica Vaticana⸨/lang⸩, 1592. This edition, printed under the auspices of Clement VIII⸼, is known as the Clementine edition.
⸨in⸩Many editions of the Vulgate have appeared in modern times, none of which can make the high pretension of being free from errors of various kinds, yet upon the whole, we are disposed to consider the Latin Vulgate one of the most magnificent translations of the Holy Scriptures that the Christian world has produced.
⸨in⸩In the Old Testament of the Hexaglot Bible, we have reproduced the “⸨lang:Latin⸩Biblia Sacra Vulgatæ editionis Sixti V⸼ Pontificis Maximi jussu recognita et Clementis VIII⸼ auctoritatis edita. Parisiis, Jouby et Roger, Editores⸨/lang⸩⸨fix:.”⸩.⸨/fix⸩
⸨in⸩In the New Testament, out of deference to the opinion and advice of friends, we have adopted the “⸨lang:Latin⸩Codex Amiatinus, Novum Testamentum Latine, Interprete Hieronymo. Ex celeberrimo Codice Amiatino omnium et antiquissimo et præstantissimo, edidit Constantius Tischendorf. Lipsiæ, Avenarius et Mendelsohn⸨/lang⸩, 1854.”
⸨in⸩It will be necessary to give our readers some account of this Codex; and this we can best do by presenting, in as brief a form as possible, the interesting story recorded by Tischendorf himself. He tells us in his Prolegomena that in his travels, which he undertook recently for five years under the patronage of Frederic Augustus, King of Saxony, his first care was everywhere to bring to light ancient records, whether Greek or Latin, referring to the text of the sacred books. Amongst the number of Latin books one, which was formerly called Amiatine, in modern times Laurentian, stands pre‑eminent; and that this has been preserved to our time he attributes to the remarkable beneficence of Divine Providence. For that book contains the biblical interpretation of Jerome, written not more than 120 years after the death of Jerome himself. A⸼ M⸼ Bandinius, towards the end of the eighteenth century described this codex with learning and skill, and Ferd⸼ Flor⸼ Fleck, in the 33rd year of the present century, himself partly collated it with the Vulgate text, and partly had it collated by his friends. The work, however, was badly done; and in the autumn of 1843, Tischendorf went to Florence, and took it in hand; he was subsequently assisted in bringing out the text by the learned S⸼ P⸼ Tregelles, LL⸼D⸼ Of the removal of the Codex Amiatinus to the Laurentian library Bandinius observes: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Quod autem in Laurentianam bibliothecam transierit, gratiæ immortales munificentiæ Petri Leopoldi, magni ducis nostri, nunc augustissimi imperatoris, sunt referendæ, qui rebus omnibus servandis quæ sacris et profanis studiis quoquo modo conferre possunt semper intentus, quum ipsi innotuisset inter suppressi Monachorum Cisterciensium montis Amiatæ cœnobii suppellectiles hoc pretiosum monumentum reperiri, religiose jussit ut cum aliis codicibus ibidem existentibus in hoc Mediceum sacrarium toto terrarum orbe celeberrimum transferretur⸨good⸩?⸨/good⸩⸨/lang⸩” ⸨i⸩But that it (the Codex Amiatinus) was transferred to the Laurentian library, undying thanks are due to the munificence of Peter Leopold, our Grand‑duke, now our most august Emperor; who, always intent upon preserving whatever can in any way contribute to sacred as well as secular learning, as soon as it was intimated to him that amongst the property of the suppressed order of the Cistercian Monks of Mount Amiata, this precious monument was found, religiously commanded that it should be removed, with other MSS⸼ which were there, to this sacred repository, the most celebrated in the whole world⸨/i⸩.
⸨in⸩The Amiatine Monastery was built about the year 750 on the lofty mount of Amiata, the modern Delle Fiore, situate on the boundaries of Tuscany and the States of the Church. It was in the possession of the Benedictine Monks for about five centuries, when by order of Gregory IX⸼ the Cistercians succeeded in their place. The question has been discussed, how the Codex came into the possession of this Monastery. The most probable story is that Peter, an Amiatine Monk, a Longobardian by birth, a man of extraordinary influence, who flourished at the end of the ninth, and the beginning of the tenth century, conferred great benefits upon his order, and amongst other benefits, this Codex. In corroboration of this view, it appears that on the first page of the Codex the following verses are written in large letters:—

⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Coenobium⸨/i⸩ ad eximii merito venerabile Salvatoris,⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Quem caput ecclesiæ dedicat alta fides,⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Petrus Longobardorum⸨/i⸩ extremis de finibus abbas⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Devoti affectus pignora mitto mei,⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Meque meosque optans tanti inter gaudia patris⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩In cælis memorem semper habere locum.⸨/lang⸩

⸨in⸩⸨i⸩To the venerable cloister of the deservedly illustrious Saviour⸨/i⸩ (Salvator, name of convent, Tisch⸼), ⸨i⸩whom ancient faith consecrates head of the church; I, Peter, abbot, send from the remotest regions of the Longobards this pledge of my affection, with the desire that both I and mine may ever find a humble (mindful) place in heaven amid the joys of such a father.⸨/i⸩
⸨in⸩It has been tolerably clearly proved that these lines appear not as they were originally written, but as they were interpolated by Peter the Longobard. The two Hexameters (lines 1 and 3) are spoilt by the interpolation. The correct reading is supposed to be according to the learned Tischendorf⸨fix::—⸩:⸨/fix⸩

⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Culmen⸨/i⸩ ad eximii merito venerabile ⸨i⸩Petri⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Quem caput ecclesiæ dedicat alta fides,⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩Servandus Latii⸨/i⸩ extremis de finibus abbas⸨/lang⸩

⸨in⸩⸨fix:“⸩⸨/fix⸩⸨i⸩To the venerable summit of the deservedly illustrious Peter, whom ancient faith consecrates head of the church, I Servandus, abbot, send from the remotest regions of Latium⸨/i⸩,” ⸨fix:etc⸼⸩⸨i⸩etc⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩
⸨in⸩Servandus was a disciple of St⸼ Benedict, and abbot of a library built by the patrician Liberius in honour of St⸼ Sebastian, in the remotest confines of Latium. He is related to have been in the habit of paying visits, and to have paid one visit in particular, in company with a few of his disciples, to his venerable master at Casinum (San Germano) ⸨sc⸩a⸼d⸼⸨/sc⸩ 541. On this occasion, Servandus presented St⸼ Benedict with this pledge of his devoted affection. There is another account that Servandus, when he was old, heard of the election of Gregory to the Popedom, and sent him this Codex as a present. There is also a tradition, dating as far back as the 11th century, that the Codex itself is in Gregory the Greatʼs handwriting.
⸨in⸩At the end of the Codex, after the list of the Canonical books, which is the same as that of the Clementine edition, the following verses are written:—

⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Hieronyme interpres variis doctissime linguis⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Te Bethlehem celebrat, te totus personat orbis.⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Te quoque nostra tuis promet bibliotheca libris,⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Qua nova cum priscis condis donaria gazis.⸨/lang⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨i⸩Jerome, interpreter skilled, in various languages learned,⸨/i⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨i⸩Thee Bethlehem celebrates, thy praise in the wide world resoundeth.⸨/i⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨i⸩Thee too, enriched with thy works, our library ever shall publish,⸨/i⸩
⸨pad⸩⸨i⸩Where thou hast stored new gifts with revered antiquityʼs treasures.⸨/i⸩

⸨in⸩The text of the Codex Amiatinus, as it differs in many respects from the Clementine edition, so, with few exceptions, it is, as Tischendorf thinks, such as Jerome wrote it. Throughout the world there is no greater vindicator of ancient truth. In many instances, where the Vulgate has no authority, or at most but very little, from the Greek, this Codex is in accord with abundant Greek authorities. The style is old ecclesiastical, not classical; the orthography is peculiar, and differs from most printed books. Letters are confused, such as the labials ⸨i⸩b⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩v⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩p⸨/i⸩, and the dentals ⸨i⸩d⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩t⸨/i⸩; the aspirate is omitted or inserted without distinction. Sometimes the consonants of compounds are assimilated, sometimes not; sometimes the same word is spelt in two or three different ways in the same page.
⸨in⸩In the Hexaglot Bible, the same plan has been adopted with this Latin text, as with the Greek. The important passages which find place in the original, but which are wanting in our Codex, are supplied from the Vulgate, within brackets, and the words which are grossly misspelt have been corrected.
⸨in⸩On this subject, Tischendorf remarks: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Emendationes in codice Amiatino maximam partem antiqua manu, sæculi fere octavi vel noni factæ sunt, paucæ recentiores sunt: passim difficile dictu est utrum emendatio ad ipsum auctorem an manum ejus æqualem an ad correctorem posteriorem sit referenda. Correctoris studio quum multa debentur quibus ipse textus amplificatur vel in aliam lectionem mutatur, tum permulta quibus dictio ad leges antiquas grammaticas convenientior est reddita: quamquam sat multa per errorem aut solœcismum scripta intacta manserunt. Non inutile esset emendationes eas quæ in re critica aliquid momenti haberent colligere, quo melius is textus ad quem corrector codicem conformare studebat cognosci posset. Nos quidem in edendo textu nec ubique illas arcendas nec plerumque recipiendas curavimus⸨good⸩.⸨/good⸩⸨/lang⸩” ⸨i⸩The corrections in the Codex Amiatinus were made for the most part by an ancient hand, about the eighth or ninth century, a few of them are more recent. It is everywhere difficult to say whether the correction is the work of the author himself, or of one of his contemporaries, or of a later writer. To the zeal of the corrector much must be attributed whereby the text itself has been amplified or changed into a different reading, and much whereby the wording has been rendered more agreeable to the ancient laws of grammar: although much that was written by error or solecism, has remained untouched. It would not be unprofitable to collect those emendations which have any critical importance, so that the text to which the corrector desired to conform this Codex might be known. We, indeed, in editing our text, have not been careful either to reject them (the corrections), or, as a rule, to accept them⸨/i⸩. The wisdom of reproducing any codex as it is, absolutely (unless the object be generously to place within the reach of all an equivalent for that to which only few can obtain access), is doubtful. But to go on multiplying copies abounding with errors and inconsistencies, especially in spelling and grammar, would be absurd. We have not hesitated in our Latin text to modify the spelling of certain words, which, to say the least, would have presented an inharmonious appearance in such a work as the Hexaglot Bible. For instance, we have substituted ⸨lang:Latin⸩scripsi⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩scribsi⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩aliud⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩aliut⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩inquit⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩inquid⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩hi⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩or⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩ii⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩hii⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩prĕtiosa⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩prætiosa⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩quĕrella⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩quærella⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩hebraice⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩ebraicæ⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩amare⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩amaræ⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩scribe⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩scribæ⸨/lang⸩, (imperative), ⸨lang:Latin⸩cum exercitu⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ ⸨lang:Latin⸩cum exercitum⸨/lang⸩, and the like. And here we may quote Tischendorfʼs words: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Qua in re paullo majorem constantiam vellem adhibitam esse⸨good⸩.⸨/good⸩⸨/lang⸩”