⸨in⸩The following verses are wanting in Tischendorf and in the Cod⸼ Vat⸼: Josh⸼ viii⸼ 12, 13, 26. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ παρενέβαλον ἀπὸ βορρᾶ τῆς Γαί, καὶ ἡ κοιλὰς ἀνὰ μέσον αὐτοῦ καὶ ἀνὰ μέσον τῆς Γαί. Καὶ ἔλαβεν ὡς πέντε χιλιάδες ἀνδρῶν καὶ ἔθετο αὐτοὺς ἔνεδραν ἀνὰ μέσον τῆς Βαιθὴλ καὶ τῆς Γαί, θάλασσαν τῆς Γαί. Καὶ ἔταξεν ὁ λαὸς πᾶσαν τὴν παρεμβολήν, ἣ ἦν ἀπὸ βορρᾶ τῇ πόλει, καὶ τὰ ἔσχατα αὐτοῦ θάλασσαν τῆς πόλεως. Καὶ ἐπορεύθη Ἰησοῦς τὴν νυκτα ἐκείνην ἐν μέσῳ τῆς κοιλάδος. Καὶ Ἰησοῦς οὐκ ἐπέστρεψε χεῖρα αὐτοῦ, ἣν ἐξέτεινεν ἐν τῷ γαισῷ, ἕως ἀνεθεμάτισε σύμπαντας τοὺς κατουκοῦντας ἐν τῇ Γαί⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩Joshua x⸼ 15, 43. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ ἐπέστρεψεν Ἰησοῦς καὶ πᾶς Ἰσραὴλ μετ᾽ αὐτοῦ εἰς τὴν παρεμβολὴν εἰς Γάλγαλα. Καὶ ἀνέστρεψεν Ἰησοῦς εἰς Γάλγαλα⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩Joshua xiii⸼ 33. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ τῇ φυλῇ Λευὶ οὐκ ἔδωκε Μωυσῆς κληρονομιαν, Κύριος ὁ θεὸς Ἰσραὴλ αὐτὸς κληρονομία αὐτῶν, καθὼς ἐλάλησεν αὐτοῖς⸨/lang⸩. Of the above verses, portions, together making up the whole, are found in the Alexandrian, Oxford and Complutensian Codices.
⸨in⸩Joshua xii⸼ 15⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩22. Some Greek copies run all these short verses into one. The gap is marked in the Hexaglot Bible, but there is no real omission, for, in the Greek, all the names of the kings mentioned are summed up as ⸨i⸩twenty and nine⸨/i⸩ (⸨lang:Greek⸩πάντες οὗτοι βασιλεῖς εἰκοσιεννέα⸨/lang⸩), whereas, in the Hebrew and in the other versions, all the kings are thirty and one.
⸨in⸩The following passage does not exist in the Hebrew. Joshua xxiv⸼ 30: ⸨lang:Greek⸩Ἐκεῖ ἔθηκαν … τῆς σήμερον ἡμέρας⸨/lang⸩. “There they placed with him, on the tomb where they buried him, the flint knives with which he circumcised the children of Israel in Gilgal, when he led them out of Egypt, as the Lord commanded, and there they are unto this day.”
⸨in⸩There is rather a long interpolation in the Greek at verse 33 of this same chapter. We shall merely give it in English: “In that day the children of Israel took the ark of God and carried it about amongst them, and Phinees exercised the office of priest instead of Eleazar, his father, until he died, and was buried in Gabaar, his native place. Then the children of Israel went each one to his own place and to his own city, and the children of Israel worshipped Astartes and Ashtaroth and the gods of the nations round about them. And the Lord delivered them up into the hands of Eglon, King of Moab, and he ruled over them eighteen years.”