⸨in⸩The Book of Daniel consists of two parts; 1st, Historical, chap⸼ i⸼⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩vi⸼, 2nd, Prophetical, vii⸼⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩xii⸼ This Book was so badly translated in the Septuagint, that, in its stead, the version of Theodotion was early adopted by the Greek churches. Tischendorf gives at the end of his work ⸨lang:Greek⸩Δανιηλ κατὰ τοῦς Ο̄⸨/lang⸩, but we have preferred to adopt Theodotionʼs translation.
⸨in⸩Sixty‑four verses find place at the commencement of the Book, recounting the story of Susannah; and at the end⸨err:, ⸩. ⸨/err⸩after chap⸼ xii⸼, forty‑two verses relating the story of Bel and the Dragon. Of these verses Horne observes: “That they were originally written in Greek by some Hellenistic Jew, without having any higher source whence they could be derived, is evident from this circumstance, that, in the history of Susannah, Daniel, in his replies to the elders, alludes to the ⸨i⸩Greek⸨/i⸩ names of the trees, under which they said the adultery charged upon Susannah was committed, which allusions cannot hold good in any other language.” Then he subjoins in a note, “In the examination of the elders, when one of them said he saw the crime committed ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὑπὸ σχῖνον⸨/lang⸩, under a mastich tree, Daniel is represented as answering, in allusion to ⸨lang:Greek⸩σχῖνον⸨/lang⸩, The angel of God, [who] hath received sentence of God, ⸨lang:Greek⸩σχίσει σε μέσον⸨/lang⸩, will cut thee in two. And when the other elder said, it was ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὑπὸ πρῖνον⸨/lang⸩, under a holm‑tree; Daniel is made to answer, in allusion to the word ⸨lang:Greek⸩πρῖνον⸨/lang⸩, The angel of the Lord waiteth with the sword, ⸨lang:Greek⸩πρίσαι σε μέσον⸨/lang⸩, to cut thee in two.”
⸨in⸩This double play on the words ⸨lang:Greek⸩σχῖνον⸨/lang⸩ and ⸨lang:Greek⸩πρῖνον⸨/lang⸩ does not sound like a translation from the Hebrew; and the whole incident, though it may be founded on fact, must be regarded as apocryphal. Our readers will not be surprised to find that we have omitted these addenda.
⸨in⸩We may just point out, that a considerable portion of the Book of Daniel is written in ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אֲרָמִית⸨/lang⸩ Syro‑Chaldaic, viz⸼, chap⸼ ii⸼ 4, to the end of chap⸼ vii⸼ The Chaldeans are said to have spoken to the king in Syriac. This includes the straightforward confession of the Chaldeans that they could not interpret the kingʼs dream, unless he first told his servants what the dream was; the anxiety and prayer of Daniel and his companions, that they might not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon; the revelation of the secret to Daniel in a night‑vision; Danielʼs exposition and interpretation of the dream to Nebuchadnezzar; the consequent promotion of Daniel and his companions; the setting up of the golden image which Shadrach, Meshach and Abed‑Nego refused to worship; their being cast into, and miraculously rescued from, the burning fiery furnace; Nebuchadnezzarʼs second dream about the hewing down of the tree, and Danielʼs interpretation thereof; Belshazzarʼs feast, the handwriting on the wall, Danielʼs interpretation and increased promotion; the kingʼs death and succession by Darius; the plot of the presidents and princes against Danielʼs life, and his providential deliverance from the den of lions; Danielʼs dream of the four beasts, including that remarkable passage; “I saw in the night visions, and, behold, ⸨i⸩one⸨/i⸩ like the son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.”