⸨in⸩2 Sam⸼ i⸼ 23. “Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided.” Here we find a vain repetition in the Septuagint, ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὡραῖοι οὐ διακεχωρισμένοι⸨/lang⸩, and ⸨lang:Greek⸩εὐπρεπεῖς …… οὐ διεχωρίσθησαν⸨/lang⸩, a double rendering of the Hebrew ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩הַנְּעִימִים …… לֹא נִפְרָדוּ⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩.
⸨in⸩2 Sam⸼ vii⸼ 14. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Ἐγὼ ἔσομαι αὐτῷ εἰς πατέρα καὶ αὐτὸς ἔσται μοι εἰς υἱόν⸨/lang⸩, agreeing with the Hebrew; cited, Heb⸼ i⸼ 5.
⸨in⸩2 Sam⸼ viii⸼ 8. “Of it (viz⸼, the brass which David took from Hadadezer), Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the lavers and all the vessels.” Not in the Hebrew or in the other versions.
⸨in⸩There is another addition in the Codex Vaticanus at 2 Sam⸼ xi⸼ 22: ⸨i⸩And David was wroth with Joab, and said to the messenger, Why did ye approach near to the city to fight? Did ye not know that ye would be smitten from the wall? Who smote Abimelech, the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast upon him a piece of a millstone from the wall, that he died in Thebes? Why went ye near the wall? ⸨/i⸩This is an almost verbatim repetition of Joabʼs charge to the messenger, verses 20, 21, and is evidently an interpolation.
⸨in⸩There is another little addition at 2 Sam⸼ xiii⸼ 34: “And the watchman came and told the king, and said, I see men from the way of Orona (?) from the hill‑side.”
⸨in⸩At 2 Sam⸼ xv⸼ 18, there is a curious addition to the Greek, which looks like a double translation of the same passage: “And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men, which came after him from Gath, passed on before the king.” This is a fair translation of the Hebrew. The double reading of the Codex Vaticanus may be exhibited thus:—
⸨in⸩1⸼ ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ πάντες οἱ παῖδες αὐτοῦ ἀνὰ χεῖρα αὐτοῦ παρῆγον, καὶ πᾶς ὁ Χελεθὶ καὶ πᾶς ὁ Φελεθί, καὶ πάντες οἱ⸨/lang⸩
⸨in⸩2⸼ ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ πᾶς ὁ λαὸς παρεπορεύετο ἐχόμενος αὐτοῦ, καὶ πᾶς ὁ Χελεθὶ καὶ πᾶς ὁ Φελεθί, καὶ πάντες οἱ⸨/lang⸩
⸨in⸩1⸼ ⸨lang:Greek⸩μαχηταὶ ἑξακόσιοι ἄνδρες, καὶ παρῆσαν ἐπὶ χεῖρα αὐτοῦ⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩2⸼ ⸨lang:Greek⸩Γεθαῖοι οἱ ἑξακόσιοι ἄνδρες οἱ ἐλθόντες τοῖς ποσὶν αὐτῶν⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩We look to critical scholars for an explanation of their tolerance of this vain repetition.
⸨in⸩2 Sam⸼ xvi⸼ 12. “It may be that the Lord will look upon my affliction, and that the Lord will requite me good for his cursing this day.” Here the present Hebrew reading is ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בְּעֵונִי⸨/lang⸩, the Masorah has ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בְּעֵינִי⸨/lang⸩. The former, to render any sense at all, should be pointed ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בַּעֲוֹנִי⸨/lang⸩, ⸨i⸩on my affliction⸨/i⸩⸨err:; ⸩⸨i⸩; ⸨/i⸩⸨/err⸩the latter signifies ⸨i⸩on my eye⸨/i⸩, i⸼e⸼, ⸨i⸩on my tears⸨/i⸩. The true reading, according to the ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩תקון ספרים⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, is ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בְּעֹנָם⸨/lang⸩, ⸨i⸩on their affliction⸨/i⸩. The Greek has, ⸨lang:Greek⸩Εἴ πως ἴδοι Κύριος ἐν τῇ ταπεινώσει μου⸨/lang⸩⸨err:. ⸩, ⸨/err⸩Without doubt this is the correct rendering, and with this the English version agrees.