⸨cen⸩OF THE SEPTUAGINT.

⸨in⸩Various accounts are given of the origin of this ancient and valuable translation of the Old Testament Scriptures⸨err:. ⸩ ⸨/err⸩One story, which long obtained credence, but which is now generally discredited, is so intimately associated with the Greek version, and the name which it bears, viz⸼ the Septuagint, that we may be excused for recording it here. The story is that Ptolemy Philadelphus wishing to add to his library the sacred writings of the Jews, sent an embassy to Eleazer, their high priest, with a request that he might be furnished with a copy of the books, and with a number of men competent to translate them into Greek. Eleazer, accordingly, despatched to the king six men from each of the 12 tribes, 72 in all, and with them an elegant copy of the Hebrew Scriptures. The envoys were received most courteously by King Ptolemy, and placed in a convenient building in the Isle of Pharos, where the work of translation was accomplished in 72 days. Each of the translators is said to have been shut up in a different cell by order of the king, that he might ascertain the truth of the translation from the common consent of all; and all of them are said to have agreed upon the same sentences, and written the same words. On the testimony of Justin Martyr, to the effect that the ruins of the cells were shewn to him by the inhabitants, the account was long received as true, but it has since been satisfactorily demonstrated from internal evidence, from numerous defects in the translation, from passages irreconcileable with the original, from varieties of style and different methods of spelling words, that the Greek version was the work of different men at different epochs; men endowed with a greater or less degree of zeal and ability, but neither assisted by miraculous agency nor gifted with divine inspiration.
⸨in⸩Of the Septuagint, the Pentateuch stands first in order of merit; Proverbs next, Jeremiah next; Daniel being so inferior, that at a very early period, the Version of Theodotion was adopted in its place. The translation was begun about ⸨sc⸩b⸼c⸼⸨/sc⸩ 280, and was probably not finished for several centuries. The dialect is Macedonic, mingled with a number of Hebraisms, being similar in style to the Greek of the New Testament. The Septuagint translation is the connecting link between the original texts. While it often explains and illustrates, sometimes even corrects and supplies the Hebrew of the Old Testament, it not unfrequently enables us to understand the peculiar sense in which words or phrases are employed in the Greek of the New Testament.
⸨in⸩Like all works which are merely human, the Greek translation has its defects as well as its merits, and some of both of these will be pointed out by us in due course. In the main it agrees with the Hebrew text as we have it this day; and the fact that it has always been received in the Jewish as well as in the Christian Church, adds no little weight to its authority.
⸨in⸩The Septuagint is said to have been used by our Lord and His Apostles. Bishop Walton, with whom the majority of writers agree, observes: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Maximum vero auctoritatis huic versioni accedit, quod Christo et apostolis in usu fuerit, qui pleraque testimonia, quæ ex Veteri Testamento proferunt, secundum hanc versionem citant, immo cum verba ab Hebraico textu differre videntur⸨/lang⸩.” ⸨i⸩But the greatest authority has been added to this version because it was used by Christ and His Apostles, who cite most of the testimonies which they adduce from the Old Testament according to this version, and that even when the words seem to differ from the Hebrew text⸨/i⸩. Again, referring to that remarkable incident recorded in Luke iv⸼ 18, when our Lord went into the synagogue on the Sabbath‑day, and stood up to read, and found the place where it is written: “⸨lang:Greek⸩Πνεῦμα Κυρίου κ⸼τ⸼λ⸼⸨/lang⸩” Walton remarks: “⸨lang:Latin⸩Hic videmus verba Evangelistæ ab Hebræo textu differre; quæ tamen cum interpretatione Græca exacte congruunt. Unde videtur colligi posse Dominum versionem Græcam in synagoga usurpasse, quam postea lingua vernacula (Syriaca) populo explicavit⸨/lang⸩.” ⸨i⸩Here we see that the words of the Evangelist differ from the Hebrew text, while they exactly agree with the Greek interpretation; whence, it appears, one may infer that our Lord used the Greek version in the Synagogue, and afterwards explained it to the people in the vernacular tongue (Syriac).⸨/i⸩
⸨in⸩That the Septuagint was quoted by Apostles and Evangelists is indisputable; that it was sometimes cited, even when the words seemed to differ from the Hebrew text, is explicable; that it was read by our Lord in the Synagogue is improbable; that it was cited by Him and His Apostles in preference to the Hebrew, is impossible. What could be more natural than that men, writing in Greek, should, when they had occasion to refer to the Old Testament Scriptures, cite from a translation they found ready at hand, a translation, the authority of which was recognized by Jews as well as by Christians? What could be more natural than that they should occasionally quote from this translation, even when the precise words differed from the Hebrew, so long as the words conveyed the general sense of the original passage? We lay emphasis on this proviso, because in numerous instances where the Greek translation does not convey the sense present in the mind of the inspired writer, he drops the Septuagint and substitutes a translation of his own. What could be more unnatural than that our Lord, Himself a Jew, should enter a Jewish Synagogue in Palestine, read a text in Greek, and then preach a sermon in Syriac? as Bishop Walton has suggested. The gospel of St⸼ Luke was written in Greek, and the Evangelist, who records the incident under consideration, gives the passage, which is a long one, in Greek. What else could he do? Whenever our Lordʼs actual utterances are given, they are given in Hebrew, or Syro‑Chaldaic; these utterances, as might be expected in a book written in a different language, are short, and are generally accompanied with a Greek translation; thus Mark v⸼ 41, Christ took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩טָלִיתָה קוּמִי⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὅ ἐ͂στι μεθερμηνευόμενον· Τὸ κοράσιον ἔγειραι⸨/lang⸩, “⸨i⸩Talitha cumi⸨/i⸩, which is being interpreted, Damsel, arise.” Mark vii⸼ 34: He opened the eyes of the blind, and said, ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אֶתְפַּתַּח⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὅ ἐστι διανοίχθητι⸨/lang⸩ “⸨i⸩Ephphatha⸨/i⸩, that is, Be opened.” Matt⸼ xxvii⸼ 46: He was expiring on the cross, and He cried with a loud voice, saying, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אֵלִי אֵלִי לְמָה שְׁבַקְתָּנִי⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, ⸨lang:Greek⸩τοῦτ᾽ ἐστι, Θεέ μου, θεέ μου, ἱνατί με ἐγκατέλιπες;⸨/lang⸩ “⸨i⸩Eli, Eli, Lama sabachthani? ⸨/i⸩that is to say, My God, My God, why hast thou forsaken me?” In two out of the three accounts of the conversion of St⸼ Paul, viz⸼, Acts ix⸼ 4, and xxii⸼ 7, we are simply informed that the voice from heaven said, ⸨lang:Greek⸩Σαοὺλ Σαούλ, τί με διώκεις⸨/lang⸩. Hence, had these been the only two accounts given, some might have concluded that the Greek words were the very words addressed to the Apostle by the Lord from heaven; but in the third account, ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, in Paulʼs defence of himself before King Agrippa, he says, Acts xxvi⸼ 14: “I heard a voice, saying unto me ⸨i⸩in the Hebrew tongue⸨/i⸩, Saul, Saul,” etc⸼ And, without doubt, that same voice which restored the girl to life, which opened the eyes of the blind, cried out in the agonies of death, and called to Saul from heaven ⸨i⸩in the Hebrew tongue⸨/i⸩, also read in solemn tones in the Synagogue, on the Sabbath day, the sublime words of the Evangelical prophet, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩רוּחַ אֲדֹנָי יֱהֹוִה עָלָי יַעַן מָשַׁח יְהֹוָה אֹתִי לְבַשֵּׂר עֲנָוִים שְׁלָחַנִי ⸨err:לַחֲבֹשׁ⸩לַחֲבשׁ⸨/err⸩ לְנִשְׁבְּרֵי לֵב⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ “The spirit of the Lord God is upon me,” etc⸼ In case, however, a doubt should be left on the readerʼs mind, we draw his attention to the fact that both Tischendorf and Alford have expunged as spurious the clause ⸨lang:Greek⸩ἰάσασθαι τοὺς συντετριμμένους τὴν καρδίαν⸨/lang⸩, found in the Septuagint, from the text of the New Testament, and that they have both retained as genuine the clause ⸨lang:Greek⸩ἀποστεῖλαι τοὺς τεθραυσμένους ἐν ἀφέσει⸨/lang⸩, which is not found in the Septuagint. They have also ⸨lang:Greek⸩κηρῦξαι⸨/lang⸩ for the ⸨lang:Greek⸩καλέσαι⸨/lang⸩ of the Septuagint.
⸨in⸩No unprejudiced man will affirm in the presence of these facts that our Lord quoted the Septuagint in the Jewish Synagogue.
⸨in⸩Finally, however great may be the excellence of any translation of the Scriptures, one can hardly be justified in exalting it to a level with the original Word. That Apostles and Evangelists used the Septuagint, is enough to stamp it with honour as well as authority, and yet that they used it under the circumstances referred to, is nothing more extraordinary than that a modern English theologian, writing for Dissenters as well as for members of the Established Church, should cite passages from neither the Hebrew nor the Greek, but from our authorized version (which is received by all), even when those passages differ in some respect from the original.
⸨in⸩The four principal texts of the Septuagint are:—
⸨in⸩⸨in⸩I⸼ The Complutensian, 1514.
⸨in⸩⸨in⸩II⸼ The Aldine, 1518.
⸨in⸩⸨in⸩III⸼ The Vatican or Roman, 1587.
⸨in⸩⸨in⸩IV⸼ The Alexandrian, 1707⸨err:–⸩—⸨/err⸩20.
⸨in⸩Besides the Septuagint there were no other Greek versions until the second century of the Christian era. In the year 130, Aquila, a Hebrew proselyte, made a new and literal translation. Shortly after, Symmachus, a Samaritan, made another and a freer translation. Next to this appeared the translation of Theodotion, which was superior to both its predecessors. These three versions formed the groundwork of Origenʼs Hexapla. Origenʼs Hexapla consisted, as the name implies, of six columns; the first of which was occupied by the Hebrew in Hebrew characters, the second by the Hebrew in Greek characters, the third by the version of Aquila, the fourth by that of Symmachus, the fifth by the Hexapla text, ⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, by Origenʼs own edition, the sixth by the version of Theodotion. After this appeared the version of Eusebius and Pamphilius, which was distributed in the provinces between Antioch and Egypt, and was called the Palestine version. Next came that of Lucian, a Presbyter of Antioch, which was read in the provinces between Constantinople and Antioch; and finally that of Hesychius, an Egyptian Bishop, which was in use at Alexandria and throughout Egypt.
⸨in⸩The Complutensian text appeared shortly before Erasmusʼs fifth edition, and was used by him in correcting his fourth. The Greek text of the Antwerp Polyglot, and of Vatableʼs Bible is based on that of the Complutensian. Bishop Walton adopted the Greek of the Venice edition of 1518, which is identical with the Vatican, printed at Rome, 1587. Hutterʼs Greek is merely a reprint of the Antwerp edition. Bagsterʼs is the Vatican edition, edited by Carafa. Stier and Theileʼs is based on the Complutensian.
⸨in⸩In the Hexaglot Bible the text of Tischendorf has been followed. This text, which is founded on the Vatican, has been adopted intact, although it has been found expedient to make certain transpositions, to place at the foot of some of the columns a few interpolations, and to supply, within brackets, a considerable number of important omissions. The various peculiarities of the Greek text of the Hexaglot Bible will be now more particularly pointed out.
⸨in⸩In Vol⸼ I⸼, which contains the Pentateuch, no transpositions have been made; the lacunæ in the Greek text are marked by asterisks. Throughout the work, the division of the Hebrew chapters has not been interfered with, even when the division has differed from the Greek and the other versions. Thus, Exodus viii⸼ 1 of the Hebrew is chap⸼ viii⸼ 5, of the others; but, in spite of this, the different columns terminate with the same clause; Hebrew, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩וַיֵּט אַהֲרֹן אֶת יָדֹו⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩; Greek, ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ ἐξέτεινεν Ἀαρὼν τὴν χεῖρα⸨/lang⸩; Latin, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Et extendit Aaron manum⸨/lang⸩; English, And Aaron stretched out his hand; German, ⸨lang:German⸩Und Aaron reichte ſeine Hand⸨/lang⸩; French, ⸨lang:French⸩Alors Aaron étendit sa main⸨/lang⸩. It will be readily perceived that the irregularity in this, as in all similar cases, is apparent, not real. At Exodus xxviii⸼ we meet with a discrepancy of more importance. Verse 23 of the Greek is verse 29 of the Hebrew, and vv⸼ 23 (26), 27, 28, 29, are wanting. A space has been left for these in our Greek column, but as they have not been inserted in the text, it may be well to supply them in this place:—
⸨in⸩⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ ποιήσεις ἐπὶ τὸ λογεῖον δύο δακτυλίους χρυσοῦς, καὶ ἐπιθήσεις τοὺς δύο δακτυλίους ἐπ᾽ ἀμφοτέρας τὰς ἀρχὰς τοῦ λογείου. Καὶ ποιήσεις δύο δακτυλίους χρυσοῦς, καὶ ἐπιθήσεις ἐπ᾽ ἀμφοτέρους τοὺς ὤμους τῆς ἐπωμίδος, κάτωθεν αὐτοῦ, κατὰ πρόσωπον, κατὰ συμβολὴν ἄνωθεν τῆς συνυφῆς τῆς ἐπωμίδος. Καὶ συσφίγξουσι τὸ λογεῖον ἀπὸ τῶν δακτυλίων τῶν ἐπ᾽ αὐτοῦ εἰς τοὺς δακτυλίους τῆς ἐπωμίδος ἐν κλώσματι ὑακινθίνῳ, ἵνα ᾖ ἐπὶ τοῦ μηχανήματος, καὶ ἵνα μὴ χαλᾶται τὸ λογεῖον ἐπὶ τῆς ἐπωμίδος.⸨/lang⸩
⸨in⸩A serious discrepancy in the arrangement of the Greek verses commences at Exodus xxxvi⸼ 8, and continues to the end of the book. It will be found, however, that these verses have double numbers, and may consequently be easily compared with the corresponding verses of the other languages. Take, ⸨i⸩e⸼g⸼⸨/i⸩, Exodus xl⸼ 29 (Greek). This is verse 35 of the other versions, and the small figure (35), at the beginning of the Greek line, at once connects ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ οὐκ ἠδυνάσθη Μωυσῆς⸨/lang⸩ with the Hebrew ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩וְלֹא יָכֹל ⸨err:מֹשֶׁה⸩משֶׁה⸨/err⸩⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, and the Latin, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Nec poterat Moyses⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩Again, the Hebrew of Leviticus v⸼ has 26 verses, while in the versions chap⸼ v⸼ terminates at ver⸼ 19. The result of this is, that chap⸼ vi⸼ 1 of the Hebrew is chap⸼ vi⸼ 8 of the other languages. Still the words at the end of the page correspond, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לֹא תְכַבֶּה⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, ⸨lang:Greek⸩οὐ σβεσθήσεται⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩nunquam deficiet in altari⸨/lang⸩, shall never go out, ⸨lang:German⸩nimmer verlöſchen⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:French⸩point sʼéteindre⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩The clause ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אֲנִי יְהֹוָה אֱלֹהֵיכֶם⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, which, in common with the modern versions, forms part of the last verse of Lev⸼ xxv⸼, commences chap⸼ xxvi⸼ of the Greek and Latin.
⸨in⸩Numbers xvii⸼ 1 of the Hebrew is chap⸼ xvi⸼ 36 of the other languages, but here again the words at the end of the page correspond, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩וַיְדַבֵּר יְהֹוָה אֶל־⸨err:מֹשֶׁה⸩משֶׁה⸨/err⸩ לֵּאמֹר⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ εἶπε Κύριος πρὸς Μωυσῆν⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Locutusque est Dominus ad Moysen, dicens⸨/lang⸩, etc⸼
⸨in⸩Similarly Numbers xvii⸼ 16 of the Hebrew is chap⸼ xvii⸼ 1 of the versions, but the phrases at the foot of the columns correspond, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩אִוָּעֵד לָכֶם שַׁמָּה⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, Where I will meet you.
⸨in⸩In Deuteronomy there are no discrepancies of this description.
⸨in⸩There are certain passages of the Hebrew upon which the Greek throws light, and ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩vice versâ⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩. There are also many passages of the Old Testament cited in the New. It will be convenient to notice these as we proceed from book to book.