⸨in⸩1 Kings ii⸼ 35. After this verse there is a very long interpolation in the Codex Vaticanus, which we have transferred from the text to the foot of the Greek column. There is another, after verse 45 of the same chapter. Both relate to the wisdom, works, wealth and power of King Solomon. Some of the incidents are introduced into the text of the Hexaglot Bible, 1 Kings iv⸼ 20, 21, 25, 26, to correspond to the other languages. Other incidents are recorded twice in the Septuagint. Thus 1 Kings iv⸼ 34, ⸨i⸩And Solomon took the daughter of Pharaoh to him to wife, and brought her to the city of David, until he had finished the house of the Lord, and his own house, and the wall of Jerusalem⸨/i⸩. The same incident has been recorded in the same words after chap⸼ ii⸼ 35. The passage is found once in the Hebrew, chap⸼ iii⸼ 1. There is considerable confusion and repetition in the Greek.
⸨in⸩1 Kings iv⸼ of the Hebrew ends at verse 20. The versions take back fourteen verses of chap⸼ v⸼ of the Hebrew to chap⸼ iv⸼, hence there is a discrepancy in the numbering of verses, and 1 Kings v⸼ 15 of the Hebrew is 1 Kings v⸼ 1 of the versions; but still the verses correspond in the Hexaglot Bible, and ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בָּהָר⸨/lang⸩, the last word of the Hebrew, verse 29, is identical with the last word of ver⸼ 15 of the other languages: ⸨lang:Greek⸩ὄρει⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Latin⸩monte⸨/lang⸩, mountains, ⸨lang:German⸩Berge⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:French⸩montagne⸨/lang⸩.
⸨in⸩Several gaps have been supplied in this book. Thus we have 1 Kings vi⸼ 11⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩14, the Lordʼs promise to Solomon, while he was building the temple, not to forsake Israel, if the divine statutes were observed.
⸨in⸩1 Kings vi⸼ 18, 21, 31⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩33, and vii⸼ 22, 26, certain particulars respecting the construction of the temple.
⸨in⸩1 Kings viii⸼ 12, 13. “Then spake Solomon, The Lord said, that he would dwell in the thick darkness; I have surely built thee an house to dwell in, a settled place for thee to abide in for ever.” (Compare 2 Chronicles vi⸼ 1, 2.)
⸨in⸩1 Kings viii⸼ 53. ⸨i⸩Then Solomon spake about the house, when he had finished building it, he beheld the sun in the heaven. The Lord said, that he would dwell in darkness, build my house, a house fit for thyself to inhabit, while it is new (continually?), behold, is this not written in the book of the Song? ⸨/i⸩This looks like the interpolation of an uninspired transcriber.
⸨in⸩1 Kings ix⸼ 15⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩26. Here we have introduced the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised, the number of officers that presided over the building, the arrival of Pharaohʼs daughter to abide in the house which had been built for her, and the offerings of Solomon three times a year upon the altar.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xi⸼ 5. Solomonʼs going after Ashtoreth, the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, the abomination of the Ammonites; and, verse 23, the adversary whom God stirred up against him, viz⸼, Rezon, son of Eliadah⸨fix:, ⸩. ⸨/fix⸩who fled from (⸨lang:Greek⸩τὸν βαραμεὲθ⸨/lang⸩) his lord, Hadadezer, king of Zobah.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xii⸼ 17. “But as for the children of Israel which dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.”
⸨in⸩1 Kings xiii⸼ 26. Referring to the disobedient prophet: “Therefore the Lord hath delivered him unto the lion, which hath torn him, and slain him, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake unto him. And he spake to his sons, saying: Saddle me the ass, and they saddled him.”
⸨in⸩1 Kings xv⸼ 5, 6. Where David is said to have done what was right in the sight of the Lord, “except in the matter with Uriah the Hittite; and there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam, all the days of his (their) life.” Also ver⸼ 32: “And there was war between Asa and Baasha, king of Israel, all their days.” All the above omissions have been supplied from the text of Stier and Theile.
⸨in⸩On comparing 1 Kings xii⸼ 1⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩19 with 2 Chron⸼ x⸼, it will be found that the two accounts are identical, with the exception of a few words. We have another example of this at 2 Kings xviii⸼ 13⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩xx⸼ 19 and Isaiah xxxvi⸼⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩xxxix⸼ It is worthy of observation that the Greek translation of these chapters, which are nearly the same in the original, is so different, that one can only conclude that the translation was the work of different men. One translator would naturally have given but one translation, unless he loved to labour in vain.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xii⸼ 16. “To your tents, O Israel.” The Hebrew has, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לְאֹהָלֶיךָ יִשְׂרָאֵל⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩. ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לְאֹהָלֶיךָ⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩to thy tents⸨/i⸩, is said to be a correction of the Scribes for ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לֵאלֹהֶיךָ⸨/lang⸩ ⸨i⸩to thy God⸨/i⸩. The Greek copies have ⸨lang:Greek⸩τᾶ σκηνώματά σου⸨/lang⸩, ⸨i⸩thy tents⸨/i⸩, which is probably the correct rendering of the true text.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xii⸼, between verses 24 and 25, the Codex Vaticanus contains an account of the visit of Jeroboamʼs wife to the prophet Ahijah, and also of Rehoboamʼs impolitic reception of the deputation from the ten tribes, and their consequent revolt under Jeroboam. This again, is a vain repetition, for the latter event is recorded at verses 4⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩24, ⸨fix:⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩⸩⸨i⸩i⸼ e⸼⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩, according to this Codex, twice in one chapter! The interpolated words are printed in small type at the foot of our Greek columns. The visit of Jeroboamʼs wife to the prophet, is recorded at 1 Kings xiv⸼ 1⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩20, the Greek of which is supplied ⸨i⸩within brackets⸨/i⸩ in the Hexaglot Bible from the text of Stier and Theile.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xvi⸼ 22, Joram, brother of Tibni, is said to have died with him (not in the Hebrew). After verse 28, there is an account of Jehoshaphat, his birth, parentage, accession to the throne of Judah, alliance with Ahab, King of Israel, the breaking up of his ships at Ezion‑geber, his death, and the accession of his son Jehoram. The account, which is not in the Hebrew, nor in the other versions, is evidently borrowed from 2 Chronicles xx⸼ 31⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩37, and xxi⸼ 1.
⸨in⸩1 Kings xix⸼ 10. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Τὰ θυσιαστηρία σου κατέσκαψαν καὶ τοὺς προφήτας σου ἀπέκτειναν ἐν ῥομφαίᾳ, καὶ ὑπολελέλειμμαι ἐγὼ μονώτατος, καὶ ζητοῦσι τὴν ψυχήν μου⸨/lang⸩. This agrees with the Hebrew; but St⸼ Paul, at Rom⸼ xi⸼ 3, transposes the first two clauses, and for the third substitutes ⸨lang:Greek⸩κἀγὼ ὑπελείφθην μόνος, ⸨fix:κ⸼τ⸼λ⸼⸩κ⸼ τ⸼ λ⸼⸨/fix⸩
⸨in⸩1 Kings xix⸼ 18. ⸨lang:Greek⸩Καὶ καταλείψεις⸨/lang⸩, “thou shalt leave,” ⸨lang:Greek⸩ἐν Ἰσραὴλ ἑπτὰ χιλιάδας, πάντα γόνατα ἃ οὐκ ὤκλασαν γόνυ τῷ Βάαλ⸨/lang⸩. This differs from the Hebrew ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩וְהִשְׁאַרְתִּי⸨/lang⸩, “but I have left.” St⸼ Paul gives the substance of the original in these words: ⸨lang:Greek⸩Κατέλιπον ἐμαυτῷ ἑπτακισχιλίους ἄνδρας, οἵτινες οὐκ ἔκαμψαν γόνυ τῇ Βάαλ⸨/lang⸩. The principal difference here is the substitution of ⸨lang:Greek⸩τῇ Βάαλ⸨/lang⸩ for ⸨lang:Greek⸩τῷ Βάαλ⸨/lang⸩ (Rom⸼ xi⸼ 4).