⸨in⸩Job ii⸼ 9. Here we have rather a long interpolation in our Greek. In place of the words addressed to Job by his wife, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩עֹדְךָ מַחֲזִיק בְּתֻמָּתֶךָ בָּרֵךְ אֱלֹהִים וָמֻת⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, “Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God and die,” all the Greek copies, which we have seen, have the following: “How long wilt thou persevere, saying, Behold, I will still endure a little time, waiting for the hope of my salvation? for, behold, thy memory hath disappeared from the earth; sons and daughters, the pangs and toils of my womb, for whom I have laboured with trouble in vain. And thou thyself, in rottenness of worms, sittest passing the night in the open air, while I, a fugitive and slave from place to place, and from house to house, await the setting of the sun, that I may rest from my labours and the pangs which torment me; but say something to the Lord, and die.” These are pathetic words, and may have been the actual utterance of Jobʼs wife; it is only the last clause which gives them the appearance of an interpolation, viz⸼, ⸨lang:Greek⸩εἰπόν τι ῥῆμα εἰς Κύριον καὶ τελευτα⸨/lang⸩; say ⸨i⸩something⸨/i⸩ to the Lord, and die. Does not this look like an evasion of the difficult expression ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בָּרֵךְ אֱלֹהִים⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩? The difficulty of this passage seems to have been universally felt. The Greek has, ⸨i⸩say something to or against the Lord⸨/i⸩⸨err:; ⸩⸨i⸩; ⸨/i⸩⸨/err⸩the Latin “⸨lang:Latin⸩benedic Deo⸨/lang⸩;” the English “curse God;” the German “⸨lang:German⸩ſegne Gott⸨/lang⸩;” the French “⸨lang:French⸩maudis Dieu⸨/lang⸩.” Some suppose the meaning to be ⸨i⸩bless idols⸨/i⸩. Probably, the real meaning is, “bless God, and die;” put an end to your sufferings.
⸨in⸩There is another interpolation at the end of the book, chap⸼ xlii⸼ 17. The words are as follow: “But it is written that he shall rise again with those whom the Lord raiseth again. This man is related, in a book written in Syriac, to have been a sojourner in the land of Auris, on the boundaries of Idumea and Arabia. His first name was Jobab. Having taken an Arabian wife, he begat a son whose name was Ennon. But he himself was, on the fatherʼs side, son of Zara one of the sons of Esau, and on the motherʼs side, of Bosorah; so that he was the fifth from Abraham. And these are the kings who reigned in Edom, over which territory he also ruled; first Balak, son of Beor, and the name of his city was Dennaba; and after Balak, Jobab called Job. And after him Ason, who was governor of the territory of the Temanites; and after him, Adad, son of Berad, who cut off Madian in the land of Moab, and the name of his city was Gethaim. And the friends, who came to him, were Eliphaz, of the sons of Esau, king of the Temanites; Bildad, tyrant of the Shuhites, Sophar, king of the Naamathites.” If this account be genuine, Job must have been a great man, and not only a great man, but in some respects, as fortunate as he was afflicted and patient. Three kings came to condole with him, and that after he had lost his all! Rather different this from the experience expressed in the Latin proverb:—
⸨cen⸩“⸨lang:Latin⸩Donec eris felix, multos numerabis amicos,⸨/lang⸩
⸨cen⸩⸨lang:Latin⸩Tempora si fuerint nubila solus eris⸨/lang⸩.”
⸨in⸩The Greek story of the ⸨i⸩three kings⸨/i⸩ is irreconcilable with the interpolation at chap⸼ ii⸼ 9, so that, regardless of other considerations, it may be safely pronounced a myth.
⸨in⸩Job xix⸼ 25. “For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ he shall stand at the latter ⸨i⸩day⸨/i⸩ upon the earth,” etc⸼ A precious passage of Holy Writ, but somewhat difficult to comprehend. The English Version supplies no fewer than seven words, three of them, viz⸼, ⸨i⸩day⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩worms⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩body⸨/i⸩, of paramount importance. All the versions understand the words to refer to the resurrection. The Septuagint translate ⸨lang:Greek⸩Οἶδα γὰρ ὅτι ἀενναός ἐστιν ὁ ἐκλύειν με μέλλων ἐπὶ γῆς⸨/lang⸩; “For I know that a daysman exists who will deliver me on earth.” The Vulgate has, ⸨lang:Latin⸩In novissimo die de terra surrecturus sum⸨/lang⸩; “I shall rise from the earth at the last day;” but the Hebrew has ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩יָקוּם⸨/lang⸩, ⸨i⸩he shall rise⸨/i⸩. ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩וְאַחַר עֹורִי נִקְּפוּ זֹאת⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩ which the English Version renders, “And ⸨i⸩though⸨/i⸩ after my skin ⸨i⸩worms⸨/i⸩ destroy this ⸨i⸩body⸨/i⸩⸨err:;” ⸩⸨i⸩;⸨/i⸩” ⸨/err⸩the Septuagint translate ⸨lang:Greek⸩ἀναστῆσαι τὸ δέρμα μου τὸ ἀναντλοῦν ταῦτα⸨/lang⸩; “To raise my skin which endures these things;” Vulgate, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Et rursum circumdabor pelle mea⸨/lang⸩; “And again I shall be surrounded with my skin.” In this sense ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩נָקַף⸨/lang⸩ is used, Isaiah xxix⸼ 1, Ps⸼ xxii⸼ 17. Luther has, ⸨lang:German⸩und werde darnach mit dieſer meiner Haut umgeben werden⸨/lang⸩ (be surrounded). The French follows the English, “⸨lang:French⸩ce ⸨i⸩corps⸨/i⸩ aura été rongé⸨/lang⸩.” The last clause, ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩כָּלוּ כִלְיֹתַי בְּחֵקִי⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩, is rendered by the Septuagint, ⸨lang:Greek⸩πάντα δέ μοι συντετέλεσται ἐν κόλπῳ⸨/lang⸩; “All things are accomplished in my bosom;” Vulg⸼, ⸨lang:Latin⸩Reposita est hæc spes in sinu meo⸨/lang⸩; “This hope is placed in my bosom.” The French has, ⸨lang:French⸩Mes reins se consument dans ce désir⸨/lang⸩; “My reins are consumed with this desire.” Here we have a very good commentary on the English, “Though my reins be consumed within me.”