⸨in⸩The book of Esther, according to the original Hebrew and the modern versions, consists of ten chapters, and chapter x⸼ of three verses only, ending with an account of the greatness and goodness of Mordecai; to this the Latin Vulgate adds ten verses and six chapters besides. The additions, supposed to have been the work of some Hellenistic Jew, are found in some of the Greek copies. In the Codex Vaticanus, and consequently in the text of Tischendorf, the first of these addenda is placed at the head of chap⸼ i⸼ In the Hexaglot Bible this is printed, in common with the others, in small type at the foot of the Greek column. The subject is Mordecaiʼs Vision. It may not be out of place here to give a translation of it: “In the first year of Nisan, the second of the reign of Artaxerxes, the great king; Mordecai, a Jew of the tribe of Benjamin, of ⸨fix:Nebuchadnezzarʼs⸩Nebuchadrezzarʼs⸨/fix⸩ captivity, dwelling in the city of Shushan, a great man, serving in the kingʼs palace, saw a vision. And, behold, there were voices and tumult, thunderings and earthquake, disturbance upon the earth. And, behold, two great dragons came forth prepared to struggle. And the voice of these was great, and at their voice every nation prepared for war, so as to war against the nation of the righteous. And, behold, a day of darkness and gloom, affliction and anguish, evil and great disturbance upon the earth. And the whole of the righteous nation (the Latin, ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩gens justorum⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩, explains the Greek, ⸨lang:Greek⸩πᾶν ἔθνος δίκαιον⸨/lang⸩, which properly signifies ‘every righteous nation⸨fix:’,) ⸩,’) ⸨/fix⸩were disturbed, being afraid of their evils, and prepared themselves to perish, and cried out unto God. And from their cry there came as it were from a little source a great stream, much water. Then light and the sun arose, and the humble were exalted, and the noble were devoured.” Hereupon follows the history of the conspiracy of Gabatha (Bigthana) and Teresh, two eunuchs of the king, keepers of the palace; Mordecaiʼs warning the king of the conspiracy; the taking, examination, confession and execution of the conspirators; the record that was made of the event in the chronicles, and Hamanʼs resolve to take revenge on Mordecai and his people, for the death of his friends, the two eunuchs. These circumstances occupy chap⸼ xi⸼⸨fix:, ⸩ ⸨/fix⸩xii⸼ of the Latin Vulgate. Again, after verse 13 of chap⸼ iii⸼ of the Greek we have a copy of the letter sent by the king to all his provinces, commanding, at the instigation of Haman, the destruction of all Jews. This forms chap⸼ xiii⸼ 1⸨fix:–⸩—⸨/fix⸩7 of the Latin Vulgate.
⸨in⸩At the end of chap⸼ iv⸼ the prayers of Mordecai and Esther are severally recorded. Mordecai supplicates the Lord, the omnipotent King, whose will to save Israel none can resist, to save his people from the destruction which Haman had devised against them. Queen Esther, on the other hand, having stripped herself of her ornaments, beseeches the Lord God of Israel, saying: ⸨i⸩O Lord, thou alone art our King, help me, a solitary being, having no help, but in thee⸨/i⸩. She further prays that the counsels of their enemies may be turned against themselves. Her prayer closes with these words: ⸨i⸩O God, ruler over all, hear the voice of the desperate⸨/i⸩ (⸨lang:Greek⸩ἀπηλπισμένων⸨/lang⸩)⸨i⸩; deliver us from the hand of wicked‑doers, and deliver me from my fear⸨/i⸩. This prayer forms ⸨fix:chap⸼⸩chap⸨/fix⸩ xiv⸼ of the Latin Vulgate. Next to this, in the Latin, these words are introduced, chap⸼ xv⸼ “⸨lang:Latin⸩Et mandavit ei (haud dubium quin esset Mardochæus) ut ingrederetur ad regem, et rogaret pro populo suo et pro patria sua. Memorare (inquit) dierum humilitatis tuæ, quomodo nutrita sis in manu mea, quia Aman, secundus a rege, locutus est contra nos in mortem: et tu invoca Dominum, et loquere regi pro nobis, et libera nos de morte⸨/lang⸩.” These words are not even in the Codex Vaticanus. The phrase ⸨lang:Latin⸩⸨i⸩haud dubium quin esset Mardochæus⸨/i⸩⸨/lang⸩ has a modern sound connected with it.
⸨in⸩At the beginning of chap⸼ v⸼ of the Greek there is a rather graphic account of Estherʼs timid entry into the presence of this terrible king, Artaxerxes or Ahasuerus. Esther is accompanied by two female attendants, upon one of whom she gracefully reclines, while the other supports her flowing train. With flushed cheeks and glistening eyes she presents herself before the king, who is clothed with robes glittering with gold and precious stones. At his terrible aspect, Esther grows pale with fear; she swoons. The king rising hastily from his throne reassures her; holds out the golden sceptre to her; she touches it; but after having exchanged a few words, Esther swoons again, to the great disconcertment of the king. The whole account bears the stamp of theatrical fiction, rather than of Bible history.
⸨in⸩After verse 13 of chap⸼ viii⸼ we have, in the Greek, another letter of the king to all the provinces of his kingdom, annulling the decree against the Jews, and ordering the execution of Haman and his partisans, and the celebration of the day under pain of death. This forms chap⸼ xvi⸼ of the Vulgate.
⸨in⸩After chap⸼ x⸼ 3 of both versions, we have Mordecaiʼs recognition that these things are of God, and his interpretation of his own dream. Esther is the little fountain, the two dragons are Mordecai and Haman, the enemies of Jerusalem are the assembled nations, and Israel the righteous people, who cried unto the Lord, and were delivered.
⸨in⸩The whole of this has such an apocryphal and Jewish air about it, that one can only feel astonished how it could make its way into the Greek and Latin versions, and yet find no place in the Hebrew text.
⸨in⸩Esther v⸼ 1, 2 are wanting in the Codex Vaticanus. This is the generally received account of Estherʼs entry into the kingʼs presence, and of his holding out to her the golden sceptre. The simplicity and subdued tone of this, the Hebrew, and, without doubt, the genuine narrative, form a striking contrast to the elaborate working up, and high colouring of the apocryphal story which has just been noticed. We have restored the verses to the text, within brackets.
⸨in⸩Esther ix⸼ 5, 30. These verses are wanting in the Greek, and we have been unable to supply them from any of the Codices. This is unusual. We will therefore draw attention to the particular words. Ver⸼ 5. “Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, and slaughter and destruction, and did what they would unto those that hated them.” Ver⸼ 30. “And he sent the letters unto all the Jews, to the hundred twenty and seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, ⸨i⸩with⸨/i⸩ words of peace and truth.” The gaps in both these instances are marked by asterisks in the Greek text of the Hexaglot Bible.