⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXV⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩Then⸨/sc⸩ again Abraham took a wife, and her name ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ Keturah.
2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ the children of Keturah.
5 ¶ And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.
6 But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.
7 And these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the days of the years of Abrahamʼs life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.
8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full ⸨i⸩of years⸨/i⸩; and was gathered to his people.
9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ before Mamre;
10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.
11 ¶ And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahai‑roi.
12 ¶ Now these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the generations of Ishmael, Abrahamʼs son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarahʼs handmaid, bare unto Abraham:
13 And these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
15 Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:
16 These ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the sons of Ishmael, and these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.
17 And these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.
18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ he died in the presence of all his brethren.
19 ¶ And these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ the generations of Isaac, Abrahamʼs son: Abraham begat Isaac:
20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padan‑aram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.
21 And Isaac intreated the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ for his wife, because she ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ barren: and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ be so, why ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ I thus? And she went to enquire of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
23 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said unto her, Two nations ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ in thy womb, and two manners of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and ⸨i⸩the one⸨/i⸩ people shall be stronger than ⸨i⸩the other⸨/i⸩ people; and the elder shall serve the younger.
24 ¶ And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, ⸨i⸩there were⸨/i⸩ twins in her womb.
25 And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.
26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esauʼs heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ threescore years old when she bare them.
27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ a plain man, dwelling in tents.
28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of ⸨i⸩his⸨/i⸩ venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.
29 ¶ And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ faint:
30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red ⸨i⸩pottage⸨/i⸩⸨err:; ⸩⸨i⸩; ⸨/i⸩⸨/err⸩for I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ faint: therefore was his name called Edom.
31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.
32 And Esau said, Behold, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me?
33 And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.
34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised ⸨i⸩his⸨/i⸩ birthright.