⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXVI⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.
2 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:
3 Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;
4 And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed;
5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
6 ¶ And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:
7 And the men of the place asked ⸨i⸩him⸨/i⸩ of his wife; and he said, She ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my sister: for he feared to say, ⸨i⸩She is⸨/i⸩ my wife; lest, ⸨i⸩said he⸨/i⸩⸨err:⸨i⸩, ⸨/i⸩⸩, ⸨/err⸩the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ fair to look upon.
8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ sporting with Rebekah his wife.
9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ thy wife: and how saidst thou, She ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.
10 And Abimelech said, What ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.
11 And Abimelech charged all ⸨i⸩his⸨/i⸩ people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ blessed him.
13 And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:
14 For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him.
15 For all the wells which his fatherʼs servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.
16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.
17 ¶ And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
19 And Isaacʼs servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.
20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaacʼs herdmen, saying, The water ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ ourʼs: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him.
21 And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.
22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
23 And he went up from thence to Beer‑sheba.
24 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared unto him the same night, and said, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abrahamʼs sake.
25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaacʼs servants digged a well.
26 ¶ Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?
28 And they said, We saw certainly that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, ⸨i⸩even⸨/i⸩ betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;
29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ now the blessed of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaacʼs servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.
33 And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ Beersheba unto this day.
34 ¶ And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:
35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.