⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XII⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩Now⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy fatherʼs house, unto a land that I will shew thee:
2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:
3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
4 So Abram departed, as the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.
5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brotherʼs son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.
6 ¶ And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ then in the land.
7 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, who appeared unto him.
8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Beth‑el, and pitched his tent, ⸨i⸩having⸨/i⸩ Beth‑el on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and called upon the name of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.
10 ¶ And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ grievous in the land.
11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ a fair woman to look upon:
12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.
13 Say, I pray thee, thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.
14 ¶ And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ very fair.
15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaohʼs house.
16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.
17 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abramʼs wife.
18 And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ this ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ thy wife?
19 Why saidst thou, She ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take ⸨i⸩her⸨/i⸩, and go thy way.
20 And Pharaoh commanded ⸨i⸩his⸨/i⸩ men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.