⸨in⸩2⸼ The features presented by the various literary sources harmonise with the foregoing sketch. But the Priestly Code exhibits some peculiarities by which it is distinguished from the pre‑exilian remains in matters sacrificial.
⸨in⸩In the first place, it is characterised in the case of bloodless offerings by a certain refinement of the material. Thus in the meal‑offerings it will have ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩סלת⸨/lang⸩ (⸨lang:Latin⸩simila⸨/lang⸩) not ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קמח⸨/lang⸩ (⸨lang:Latin⸩far⸨/lang⸩). In the whole pre‑exilian literature the former is mentioned only three times altogether, but never in connection with sacrifice, where, on the contrary, the ordinary meal is used (Judges vi⸼ 19; 1 Sam⸼ i⸼ 24). That this is no mere accident appears on the one hand from the fact that in the later literature, from Ezekiel onwards, ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קמח⸨/lang⸩ as sacrificial meal entirely disappears, and ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩סלת⸨/lang⸩ invariably take its place; on the other hand, from this that the LXX (or the Hebrew text from which that version was taken) is offended by the illegality of the material in 1 Sam⸼ i⸼ 24, and alters the reading so as to bring it to conformity with the Law.¹
⸨in⸩So also a striking preference is shown for incense. With every meal‑offering incense is offered upon the altar; in the inner sanctuary a special mixture of spices is employed, the accurately given recipe for which is not to be followed for private purposes. The offering of incense is the privilege of the higher priesthood; in the ritual of the great Day of Atonement, the sole one in which Aaron must discharge the duties in person, it occupies a conspicuous place. It has an altogether dangerous sanctity; Aaronʼs own sons died for not having made use of the proper fire. It is the cause of death and destruction to the Levites of Korahʼs company who are not entitled to use it, while immediately afterwards, in the hands of the legitimate high priest, it becomes the means of appeasing the anger of Jehovah, and of staying the plague. Now of this offering, thus invested with such a halo of sanctity, the older literature of the Jewish Canon, down to Jeremiah and Zephaniah, knows absolutely nothing. The verb ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קטּר⸨/lang⸩ is there used invariably and exclusively of the ⸨i⸩burning⸨/i⸩ of fat or meal, and thereby making to God a sweet‑smelling savour; it is never used to denote the ⸨i⸩offering of incense⸨/i⸩, and the substantive ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קטרת⸨/lang⸩ as a sacrificial term has the quite general signification of that which is burnt on the altar.² In enumerations where the prophets exhaust everything pertaining to sacred gifts and liturgic performances, in which, for the sake of lengthening the catalogue, they do not shrink from repetitions even, there is not any mention of incense‑offerings, neither in Amos (iv⸼ 4 seq⸼, v⸼ 21 seq⸼) nor in Isaiah (i⸼ 11 seq⸼) nor in Micah (vi⸼ 6 seq⸼). Shall we suppose that they all of them forget this subject by mere accident, or that they conspired to ignore it? If it had really existed, and been of so great consequence, surely one of them at least would not have failed to speak of it. The Jehovistic section of the Hexateuch is equally silent, so also the historical books, except Chronicles, and so the rest of the prophets, down to Jeremiah, who (vi⸼ 20) selects incense as the example of a rare and far‑fetched offering: “To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and the precious cane from a far country?” Thenceforward it is mentioned in Ezekiel, in Isaiah (xl⸼–lxvi⸼), in Nehemiah, and in Chronicles; the references are continuous. The introduction of incense is a natural result of increased luxury; one is tempted to conjecture that its use must have first crept into the Jehovah worship as an innovation from a more luxuriously‑developed foreign cultus. But the importance which it has attained in the ritual legislation of the Pentateuch is manifest above all from this, that it has led to the invention of a peculiar new and highly sacred piece of furniture, namely, the golden altar in the inner tabernacle, which is unknown to history, and which is foreign even to the kernel of the Priestly Code itself.
⸨in⸩We expect to find the altar of incense in Exod⸼ xxv⸼–xxix⸼, but find it instead as an appendix at the beginning of Exod⸼ xxx⸼ Why not until now? why thus separated from the other furnishings of the inner sanctuary? and not only so, but even after the ordinances relating to the adornment of the priests, and the inauguration of the divine service? The reason why the author of chaps⸼ xxv⸼–xxix⸼ is thus silent about the altar of incense in the passage in which the furniture of the tabernacle, consisting of ark, table, and candlestick, is described, is, that he does not know of it. There is no other possibility; for he cannot have forgotten it.³ And the phenomenon is repeated; the altar of incense occurs only in certain portions of the Priestly Code, and is absent from others where it could not possibly have been omitted, had it been known. The rite of the most solemn atoning sacrifice takes place in Lev⸼ iv⸼ indeed on the golden altar, but in Exod⸼ xxix⸼, Lev⸼ viii⸼, ix⸼, without its use. A still more striking circumstance is, that in passages where the holiest incense‑offering itself is spoken of, no trace can be discovered of the corresponding altar. This is particularly the case in Lev⸼ xvi⸼ To burn incense in the sanctuary, Aaron takes a censer, fills it with coals from the altar of burnt‑offering (ver⸼ 12, 18–20), and lays the incense upon them in the adytum. Similarly in Lev⸼ x⸼, Num⸼ xvi⸼, xvii⸼, incense is offered on censers, of which each priest possesses one. The coals are taken from the altar of burnt‑offering (Num⸼ xvii⸼ 11; ⸨err⸩A⸼⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩ ⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩V⸼⸨/err⸩ xvi⸼ 46), which is plated with the censers of the Korahite Levites (xvii⸼ 3, 4; ⸨err⸩A⸼⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩ ⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩V⸼⸨/err⸩ xvi⸼ 38, 39); whoever takes fire from any other source, incurs the penalty of death (Lev⸼ x⸼ 1 seq⸼). The altar of incense is everywhere unknown here; the altar of burnt‑offering is the only altar, and, moreover, is always called simply ⸨i⸩the altar⸨/i⸩, as for example, even in Exod⸼ xxvii⸼, where it would have been specially necessary to add the qualifying expression. Only in certain later portions of the Priestly Code does the name altar of burnt‑offering occur, viz⸼, in those passages which do recognise the altar of incense. In this connection the command of Exod⸼ xxvii⸼ as compared with the execution in Exod⸼ xxxviii⸼ is characteristic.
⸨in⸩The golden altar in the sanctuary is originally simply the golden table; the variation of the expression has led to a doubling of the thing. Ezekiel does not distinguish between the table and the altar in the temple, but uses either expression indifferently. For he says (xli⸼ 21 seq⸼): “Before the adytum stood what looked like an altar of wood, three cubits in height, two cubits in length and breadth, and it had projecting corners, and its frame and its walls were of wood; this is the table which is before the Lord.” In like manner he designates the service of the priests in the inner sanctuary as table‑service (xliv⸼ 16); table is the name, altar the function.⁴ In 1 Kings vii⸼ 48, it is true that the golden altar and the golden table are mentioned together. It seems strange, however, that in this case the concluding summary mentions one piece of furniture more—and that piece one of so great importance—than the preceding detailed description; for in the latter only the preparation of the golden altar is spoken of, and nothing is said of the golden table (vi⸼ 20–22). As matters stand, nothing is less improbable than that some later transcriber should have interpolated the golden table in vii⸼ 48, regarding it, in accordance with the Pentateuch, as distinct from the golden altar, and therefore considering its absence as an omission. From other considerations also, it is clear that the text of the whole chapter is in many ways corrupt and interpolated.
⸨in⸩It is not to be wondered at if in the post‑exilian temple there existed both a golden altar and a golden table. We learn from 1 Macc⸼ i⸼ 21 seq⸼, iv⸼ 49, that both were carried off by Antiochus Epiphanes, and renewed at the Feast of the Dedication. But it causes no small surprise to find that at the destruction of Jerusalem the Romans found and carried off table and candlestick only. What can have become, in the meantime, of the golden altar of incense? And it is further worth remarking that in the LXX the passage Exod⸼ xxxvii⸼ 25–29 is absent; that is to say, the altar of incense is indeed commanded, but there is no word of its execution. In these circumstances, finally, the vacillating statement as to its position in Exod⸼ xxx⸼ 6, and the supposed mistake of the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews, are important and intelligible. Compare also 2 Macc⸼ ii⸼ 5, where only the table, but not the altar, is hidden by Jeremiah.
⸨in⸩So much for the offering of incense and its altar. We may in like manner venture to regard it as a kind of refinement, though rather a refinement of idea, that the flesh of the sacrifice in the Priestly Code is no longer boiled, but consigned to the altar flames in its raw condition. Such was not the ancient custom, as is seen, not only from the case of Gideon already cited (Judges vi⸼), but also from the procedure at Shiloh, described in 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼, where the sons of Eli will not wait until the flesh of the sacrifice has been boiled, and the altar pieces burnt, but demand their share raw for roasting. The meal which the Deity shares with men is prepared in the same way as for men. This naive conception gave way before advancing culture, and that at a comparatively early date. It is possible that another cause may also have co‑operated towards this result. The old method of preparing flesh in general use among the people, at a later period also, was by boiling. The word ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בשל⸨/lang⸩ (to seethe in water) occurs with extreme frequency; ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩צלה⸨/lang⸩ (to roast), on the other hand, only in Exod⸼ xii⸼ 8, and Isa⸼ xliv⸼ 16, 19. All sacrificial flesh (⸨lang:Hebrew⸩בשלה⸨/lang⸩) was boiled, and there was no other kind.⁵ But among persons of the upper class roasting must also have come into use at an early period. “Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not take sodden flesh of thee, but raw,” says the servant of the sons of Eli in 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 15. The fact that in the interval the custom of boiling had gone generally somewhat out of fashion may accordingly have also contributed to bring about the abandonment of the old usage of offering the sacrificial portions boiled. In any case this is the explanation of the circumstance that the paschal lamb, which originally was boiled like all other offerings, could, according to the express appointment of the Priestly Code, be eaten roasted only.⁶
⸨in⸩The phenomenon that in the Law meal is by preference offered raw, while in the earlier period, even as an adjunct of the burnt‑offering, it was presented baked, belongs to the same category. The latter is the case in Judges vi⸼ 19 at least, and the statement of 1 Sam⸼ i⸼ 24 is also to be understood in the same sense; the sacrificer brings meal along with him in order to bake it into ⸨i⸩maççah⸨/i⸩ on the spot (Ezek⸼ xlvi⸼ 20). But he may bring along with him common, that is, leavened, cakes also (1 Sam⸼ x⸼ 3), which seem originally by no means to have been considered unfit to be offered as in Lev⸼ ii⸼ 11. For under this law of Lev⸼ ii⸼ even the presentation of the shewbread would be inexplicable, and moreover it is certain that at first the loaves of the feast of weeks were offerings, properly so called, and not merely dues to the priests. According to Amos iv⸼ 5, leavened bread was made use of precisely at a particularly solemn sacrifice, and a reminiscence of this usage has been preserved even in Lev⸼ vii⸼ 13, although of course without any practical weight being attached to it.⁷ Moreover, ⸨i⸩maççah⸨/i⸩ also means, properly speaking, only the bread that is prepared in haste and in the most primitive manner for immediate use, and originally implies no contrast with leaven, but simply with the more artificial and tedious manner of producing ordinary bread.⁸ In the Priestly Code the materials are finer, but they are as much as possible left in their raw condition; both are steps in advance.

⸨in⸩¹ Ezek⸼ xvi⸼ 13, 19, xlvi⸼ 14; 1 Chron⸼ ix⸼ 29, xxiii⸼ 29; Ecclus⸼ xxxv⸼ 2, xxxviii⸼ 11, xxxix⸼ 32; Isa⸼ i⸼ 13 (LXX); lxvi⸼ 3 (LXX). In the Priestly Code ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩סלת⸨/lang⸩ occurs more than forty times.

⸨in⸩² The verb is used in ⸨i⸩piel⸨/i⸩ by the older writers, in ⸨i⸩hiphil⸨/i⸩ by the Priestly Code (Chronicles), and promiscuously in both forms during the transition period by the author of the Books of Kings. This is the case, at least, where the forms can with certainty be distinguished, namely, in the perfect, imperative, and infinitive; the distinction between ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩יקטר⸨/lang⸩ and ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩יקטיר⸨/lang⸩, ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩מקטר⸨/lang⸩ and ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩מקטיר⸨/lang⸩ rests, as is well known, upon no secure tradition. Compare, for example, kaṭṭer jaḳṭirun, 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 16; the transcribers and punctuators under the influence of the Pentateuch preferred the ⸨i⸩hiphil⸨/i⸩. In the Priestly Code (Chronicles) ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩הקטיר⸨/lang⸩ has both meanings alongside of each other, but when used without a qualifying phrase it generally means incensing, and when consuming a sacrifice is intended ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩המזבחה⸨/lang⸩ is usually added, “on the altar,” that is, the place on which the incense‑offering strictly so called was ⸨i⸩not⸨/i⸩ offered. The substantive ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩קטרת⸨/lang⸩ in the sense of “an offering of incense” in which it occurs exclusively and very frequently in the Priestly Code, is first found in Ezekiel (viii⸼ 11, xvi⸼ 18, xxiii⸼ 41) and often afterwards in Chronicles, but in the rest of the Old Testament only in Proverbs xxvii⸼ 9, but there in a profane sense. Elsewhere never, not even in passages so late as 1 Sam⸼ ii⸼ 28; Ps⸼ lxvi⸼ 15, cxli⸼ 2. In authors of a certainly pre‑exilian date the word occurs only twice, both times in a perfectly general sense. Isa⸼ i⸼ 13: “Bring me no more oblations; it is an abominable incense to me.” Deut⸼ xxxiii⸼ 10: “The Levites shall put incense (⸨i⸩i⸼e⸼⸨/i⸩, the fat of thank‑offerings) before thee, and whole burnt‑offerings upon thine altar.” The name ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩לבנה⸨/lang⸩ (frankincense) first occurs in Jeremiah (vi⸼ 20, xvii⸼ 26, xli⸼ 5); elsewhere only in the Priestly Code (nine times), in Isa⸼ xl⸼–lxvi⸼ (three times), in Chronicles and Nehemiah (three times), and in Canticles (three times). Compare Zeph⸼ iii⸼ 10; 1 Kings ix⸼ 25.

⸨in⸩³ There is a peculiar perversity in meeting the objection by alleging other singularities in the ordinance, as for example, that the vessels of the tabernacle are appointed (chap⸼ xxv⸼) before the tabernacle itself (chap⸼ xxvi⸼). This last is no eccentricity; the order in commanding is first the end, and then the means; but in obeying, the order is reversed. In like manner, it is not at all surprising if subsidiary implements, such as benches for slaughtering, or basins for washing, which have no importance for the cultus, properly so called, should be either passed over altogether, or merely brought in as an appendix. The case is not at all parallel with the omission of the most important utensil of the sanctuary from the very passage to which it necessarily belongs.

⸨in⸩⁴ Malachi, on the other hand, designates the so‑called altar of burnt‑offering as a table.

⸨in⸩⁵ Accordingly one must understand ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩עשה⸨/lang⸩ also of boiling (Judges vi⸼ 19). Compare the boiling‑houses of the temple still found in Ezek⸼ xlvi⸼ 20–24. In 1 Sam⸼ i⸼ 9 pronounce ⸨i⸩beshéla⸨/i⸩ instead of ⸨i⸩beshilo⸨/i⸩, and delete ⸨rtl⸩⸨lang:Hebrew⸩ואהרי שתה⸨/lang⸩⸨/rtl⸩.

⸨in⸩⁶ Compare the polemical ordinance of Exod⸼ xii⸼ 9 with Deut⸼ xvi⸼ 7.

⸨in⸩⁷ The loaves are passed over in silence in Lev⸼ vii⸼ 29 seq⸼, although it is in this very place that the manner of presenting on the part of the offerer is most fully described. And when it is said (vii⸼ 12), “If he offer it for a thanksgiving (Todah), then he shall offer with it unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil and fine flour (LXX), mingled with oil;” vii⸼ 13, “[With] leavened cakes shall he offer as a gift with the thank‑offering of the Todah,” the suspicion very readily occurs that verse 12 is an authentic interpretation prefixed, to obviate beforehand the difficulty presented by verse 13, and that similarly the first ⸨lang:Hebrew⸩על⸨/lang⸩ in verse 13 is also a later correction, which does not harmonise well by any means with the second. Verse 13 connects itself better with verse 11 than with verse 12.—Exod⸼ xxxiv⸼ 25.

⸨in⸩⁸ Compare Gen⸼ xviii⸼ 6 with xix⸼ 3.