⸨in⸩1⸼ The main Jehovistic law, the so‑called Book of the Covenant, contains (Exod⸼ xx⸼ 24–26) the following ordinance: “An altar of earth shalt thou make unto me, and thereon shalt thou sacrifice thy burnt‑offerings and thy peace‑offerings, thy sheep and thine oxen; in every place where I cause my name to be honoured will I come unto thee, and will bless thee. Or if thou wilt make me an altar of stones, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones, for if thou hast lifted up thy tool upon it thou hast polluted it. And thou shalt not go up to mine altar by steps, that thy nakedness be not discovered before it.” Unquestionably it is not the altar of the tabernacle, which was made of wood and plated over with brass, nor that of Solomonʼs temple, which on its eastern side had a flight of steps,¹ and had a passage right round it at half its height, that is here described as the only true one. On the other hand, it is obvious that a multiplicity of altars is not merely regarded as permissible, but assumed as a matter of course. For no stress at all is laid upon having always the same sacrificial seat, whether fixed or to be moved about from place to place; earth and unhewn stones² of the field can be found everywhere, and such an altar falls to pieces just as readily as it is built. A choice of two kinds of material is also given, which surely implies that the lawgiver thought of more than one altar; and not at ⸨i⸩the⸨/i⸩ place, but at ⸨i⸩every⸨/i⸩ place where He causes His name to be honoured will Jehovah come to His worshippers and bless them. Thus the law now under consideration is in harmony with the custom and usage of the first historical period, has its root therein, and gives sanction to it. Certainly the liberty to sacrifice everywhere seems to be somewhat restricted by the added clause, “in every place where I cause my name to be honoured.” But this means nothing more than that the spots where intercourse between earth and heaven took place were not willingly regarded as arbitrarily chosen, but, on the contrary, were considered as having been somehow or other selected by the Deity Himself for His service.
⸨in⸩In perfect correspondence with the Jehovistic law is the Jehovistic narrative of the Pentateuch, as, in particular, the story of the patriarchs in J and E very clearly shows. At every place where they take up their abode or make a passing stay, the fathers of the nation, according to this authority, erect altars, set up memorial stones, plant trees, dig wells. This does not take place at indifferent and casual localities, but at Shechem and Bethel in Ephraim, at Hebron and Beersheba in Judah, at Mizpah, Mahanaim, and Penuel in Gilead; nowhere but at famous and immemorially holy places of worship. It is on this that the interest of such notifications depends; they are no mere antiquarian facts, but full of the most living significance for the present of the narrator. The altar built by Abraham at Shechem is the altar on which sacrifice still continues to be made, and bears “even unto this day” the name which the patriarch gave it. On the spot where at Hebron he first entertained Jehovah, there down to the present day the table has continued to be spread; even as Isaac himself did, so do his sons still swear (Amos viii⸼ 14; Hos⸼ iv⸼ 15) by the sacred well of Beersheba, which he digged, and sacrifice there upon the altar which he built, under the tamarisk which he planted. The stone which Jacob consecrated at Bethel the generation of the living continues to anoint, paying the tithes which of old he vowed to the house of God there. This also is the reason why the sacred localities are so well known to the narrator, and are punctually and accurately recorded notwithstanding the four hundred years of the Egyptian sojourn, which otherwise would have made their identification a matter of some little difficulty. The altar which Abraham built at Bethel stands upon the hill to the east of the town, between Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; others are determined by means of a tree or a well, as that of Shechem or Beersheba.³ But of course it was not intended to throw dishonour upon the cultus of the present when its institution was ascribed to the fathers of the nation. Rather, on the contrary, do these legends glorify the origin of the sanctuaries to which they are attached, and surround them with the nimbus of a venerable consecration. All the more as the altars, as a rule, are not built by the patriarchs according to their own private judgment wheresoever they please; on the contrary, a theophany calls attention to, or at least afterwards confirms, the holiness of the place. Jehovah appears at Shechem to Abraham, who thereupon builds the altar “to Jehovah who had appeared unto him;” he partakes of his hospitality under the oak of Mamre, which is the origin of the sacrificial service there; He shows him the place where he is to make an offering of his son, and here the sanctuary continues to exist. On the first night of Isaacʼs sleeping on the sacred soil of Beersheba (xxvi⸼ 24) he receives a visit from the ⸨i⸩Numen⸨/i⸩ there residing, and in consequence rears his altar. Surprised by profane glances, Jehovah acts as a destroyer, but Himself spontaneously points out to His favoured ones the places where it is His pleasure to allow Himself to be seen; and where men have seen Him and yet lived, there a sanctuary marks the open way of access to Him. The substance of the revelation is in these cases comparatively indifferent: “I am God.” What is of importance is the theophany in and for itself, its occurrence on that particular place. It must not be regarded as an isolated fact, but rather as the striking commencement of an intercourse ⸨rtl⸩(⸨lang:Hebrew⸩ראה פני יהוה⸨/lang⸩)⸨/rtl⸩ between God and man which is destined to be continued at this spot, and also as the first and strongest expression of the sanctity of the soil. This way of looking at the thing appears most clearly and with incomparable charm in the story of the ladder which Jacob saw at Bethel. “He dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it. And he was afraid and said, How dreadful is this place! This is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.” The ladder stands at the place not at this moment merely, but continually, and, as it were, by nature. Bethel—so Jacob perceives from this—is a place where heaven and earth meet, where the angels ascend and descend, to carry on the communication between earth and heaven ordained by God at this gate.
⸨in⸩All this is only to be understood as a glorification of the relations and arrangements of the cultus as we find them (say) in the first centuries of the divided kingdom. All that seems offensive and heathenish to a later age is here consecrated and countenanced by Jehovah Himself and His favoured ones,—the high places, the memorial stones (maççeboth), the trees, the wells.⁴ An essential agreement prevails between the Jehovistic law which sanctions the existing seats of worship and the Jehovistic narrative; the latter is as regards its nucleus perhaps somewhat older. Both obviously belong to the pre‑prophetic period; a later revision of the narrative in the prophetic sense has not altered the essential character of its fundamental elements. It is inconceivable that Amos or Hosea, or any like‑minded person, could go with such sympathising love and believing reverence into narratives which only served to invest with a still brighter nimbus and higher respect the existing religious worship, carried on by the people on the high places of Isaac as their holiest occupation.

⸨in⸩¹ The altar of the second temple had no steps, but a sloping ascent to it, as also, according to the belief of the Jews, had that of the tabernacle. The reason, moreover, for which in Exod⸼ xx⸼ 26 steps are forbidden, disappears when the priests are provided with breeches (Exod⸼ xxviii⸼ 42).

⸨in⸩² The plural “stones” is perhaps worthy of note. There were also sacrificial places consisting of ⸨i⸩one⸨/i⸩ great stone (1 Sam⸼ xiv⸼ 33, vi⸼ 14, 15; 2 Sam⸼ xx⸼ 8; Judges vi⸼ 20, xiii⸼ 19, 20; 1 Kings i⸼ 9); to the same category also doubtless belongs originally the threshing‑floor of Araunah, 2 Sam⸼ xxiv⸼ 21; compare Ezra iii⸼ 3, ⸨rtl⸩(⸨lang:Hebrew⸩על מכונתו⸨/lang⸩)⸨/rtl⸩. But inasmuch as such single sacred stones easily came into a mythological relation to the Deity, offence was taken at them, as appears from Judges vi⸼ 22–24, where the rock altar, the stone under the oak which was conceived of as the seat of the theophany, upon which Gideon offers, and out of which the flame issues (vi⸼ 19–21), is corrected into an altar upon the rock. The maççeboth are distinguished from the altar in Exod⸼ xxiv⸼ 4, yet elsewhere clearly put on the same plane with it (Gen⸼ xxxiii⸼ 20), and everywhere more or less identified with the Deity (Gen⸼ xxviii⸼).

⸨in⸩³ The correct explanation of this is found in Ewald, ⸨i⸩Gesch⸼ d⸼ V⸼ Israels⸨/i⸩, i⸼ 436 seq⸼ (3d edit⸼). A⸼ Bernstein (⸨i⸩Ursprung der Sagen von Abraham⸨/i⸩, etc⸼, Berlin, 1871) drags in politics in a repulsive way. “He does not indeed actually enter Shechem and Bethel—these are places hostile to Judah—but in a genuine spirit of Jewish demonstration he builds altars in their vicinity and calls on the name of Jehovah” (p⸼ 22). Rather, he builds the altars precisely on the places where, as can be shown, they afterwards stood, and that was not inside the towns. In Gen⸼ xviii⸼ also the oak of Mamre is employed to fix not Abrahamʼs residence, but the place of Jehovahʼs appearing.

⸨in⸩⁴ But it is only the public cultus and that of certain leading sanctuaries that is thus glorified; on the other hand, the domestic worship of teraphim, to which the women are specially attached, is already discountenanced (in E) by Jacob. Asherim are not alluded to, molten images are rejected, particularly by E. Here perhaps a correction of the ancient legend has already taken place in JE.