⸨cen⸩⸨b⸩31⸨/b⸩

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, ⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ “Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. ⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship, ⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in bronze, ⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship. ⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ Behold, I myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise‑hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you: ⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the covenant, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent, ⸨sup⸩8⸨/sup⸩ the table and its vessels, the pure lamp stand with all its vessels, the altar of incense, ⸨sup⸩9⸨/sup⸩ the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, the basin and its base, ⸨sup⸩10⸨/sup⸩ the finely worked garments⸨fix:—⸩–⸨/fix⸩the holy garments for Aaron the priest, the garments of his sons to minister in the priestʼs office⸨fix:— ⸩– ⸨/fix⸩⸨sup⸩11⸨/sup⸩ the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩12⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, ⸨sup⸩13⸨/sup⸩ “Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Most certainly you shall keep my Sabbaths; for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you. ⸨sup⸩14⸨/sup⸩ You shall keep the Sabbath therefore, for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. ⸨sup⸩15⸨/sup⸩ Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death. ⸨sup⸩16⸨/sup⸩ Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant. ⸨sup⸩17⸨/sup⸩ It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.’”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩18⸨/sup⸩ When he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, he gave Moses the two tablets of the covenant, stone tablets, written with Godʼs finger.