⸨cen⸩⸨b⸩6⸨/b⸩

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh said to Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a strong hand he shall let them go, and by a strong hand he shall drive them out of his land.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ God spoke to Moses, and said to him, “I am Yahweh. ⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty; but by my name Yahweh I was not known to them. ⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens. ⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ Moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. ⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ Therefore tell the children of Israel, ‘I am Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments. ⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ I will take you to myself for a people. I will be your God; and you shall know that I am Yahweh your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. ⸨sup⸩8⸨/sup⸩ I will bring you into the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it to you for a heritage: I am Yahweh.’”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩9⸨/sup⸩ Moses spoke so to the children of Israel, but they didnʼt listen to Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩10⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, ⸨sup⸩11⸨/sup⸩ “Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩12⸨/sup⸩ Moses spoke before Yahweh, saying, “Behold, the children of Israel havenʼt listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me, when I have uncircumcised lips?” ⸨sup⸩13⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a command to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩14⸨/sup⸩ These are the heads of their fathersʼ houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben. ⸨sup⸩15⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon. ⸨sup⸩16⸨/sup⸩ These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred thirty‑seven years. ⸨sup⸩17⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families. ⸨sup⸩18⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty‑three years. ⸨sup⸩19⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. ⸨sup⸩20⸨/sup⸩ Amram took Jochebed his fatherʼs sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses. The years of the life of Amram were one hundred thirty‑seven years. ⸨sup⸩21⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. ⸨sup⸩22⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri. ⸨sup⸩23⸨/sup⸩ Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. ⸨sup⸩24⸨/sup⸩ The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. ⸨sup⸩25⸨/sup⸩ Eleazar Aaronʼs son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathersʼ houses of the Levites according to their families. ⸨sup⸩26⸨/sup⸩ These are that Aaron and Moses to whom Yahweh said, “Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.” ⸨sup⸩27⸨/sup⸩ These are those who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩28⸨/sup⸩ On the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, ⸨sup⸩29⸨/sup⸩ Yahweh said to Moses, “I am Yahweh. Tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I tell you.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩30⸨/sup⸩ Moses said before Yahweh, “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?”