⸨cen⸩CHAPTER II⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,
2 Every man of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard, with the ensign of their fatherʼs house: far off about the tabernacle of the congregation shall they pitch.
3 And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of the standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: and Nahshon the son of Amminadab ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ captain of the children of Judah.
4 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.
5 And those that do pitch next unto him ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the tribe of Issachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ captain of the children of Issachar.
6 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ fifty and four thousand and four hundred.
7 ⸨i⸩Then⸨/i⸩ the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ captain of the children of Zebulun.
8 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.
9 All that were numbered in the camp of Judah ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, throughout their armies. These shall first set forth.
10 ¶ On the south side ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their armies: and the captain of the children of Reuben ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Elizur the son of Shedeur.
11 And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ forty and six thousand and five hundred.
12 And those which pitch by him ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the tribe of Simeon: and the captain of the children of Simeon ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
13 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.
14 Then the tribe of Gad: and the captain of the sons of Gad ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Eliasaph the son of Reuel.
15 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty.
16 All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, throughout their armies. And they shall set forth in the second rank.
17 ¶ Then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forward with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place by their standards.
18 ¶ On the west side ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraim ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Elishama the son of Ammihud.
19 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ forty thousand and five hundred.
20 And by him ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the tribe of Manasseh: and the captain of the children of Manasseh ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
21 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ thirty and two thousand and two hundred.
22 Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the captain of the sons of Benjamin ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Abidan the son of Gideoni.
23 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ thirty and five thousand and four hundred.
24 All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies. And they shall go forward in the third rank.
25 ¶ The standard of the camp of Dan ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ on the north side by their armies: and the captain of the children of Dan ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
26 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.
27 And those that encamp by him ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ the tribe of Asher: and the captain of the children of Asher ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Pagiel the son of Ocran.
28 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ forty and one thousand and five hundred.
29 ¶ Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children of Naphtali ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ Ahira the son of Enan.
30 And his host, and those that were numbered of them, ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
31 All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ an hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall go hindmost with their standards.
32 ¶ These ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ those which were numbered of the children of Israel by the house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the camps throughout their hosts ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.
33 But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ commanded Moses.
34 And the children of Israel did according to all that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ commanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set forward, every one after their families, according to the house of their fathers.