⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXVII⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep all the commandments which I command you this day.
2 And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set thee up great stones, and plaister them with plaister:
3 And thou shalt write upon them all the words of this law, when thou art passed over, that thou mayest go in unto the land which the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God giveth thee, a land that floweth with milk and honey; as the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ God of thy fathers hath promised thee.
4 Therefore it shall be when ye be gone over Jordan, ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ ye shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, and thou shalt plaister them with plaister.
5 And there shalt thou build an altar unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God, an altar of stones: thou shalt not lift up ⸨i⸩any⸨/i⸩ iron ⸨i⸩tool⸨/i⸩ upon them.
6 Thou shalt build the altar of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God of whole stones: and thou shalt offer burnt offerings thereon unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God:
7 And thou shalt offer peace offerings, and shalt eat there, and rejoice before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God.
8 And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly.
9 ¶ And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel, saying, Take heed, and hearken, O Israel; this day thou art become the people of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God.
10 Thou shalt therefore obey the voice of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day.
11 ¶ And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
12 These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people, when ye are come over Jordan; Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin:
13 And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to curse; Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
14 ¶ And the Levites shall speak, and say unto all the men of Israel with a loud voice,
15 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ the man that maketh ⸨i⸩any⸨/i⸩ graven or molten image, an abomination unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and putteth ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ in ⸨i⸩a⸨/i⸩ secret ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩. And all the people shall answer and say, Amen.
16 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that setteth light by his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
17 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that removeth his neighbourʼs landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen.
18 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.
19 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.
20 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that lieth with his fatherʼs wife; because he uncovereth his fatherʼs skirt. And all the people shall say, Amen.
21 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that lieth with any manner of beast. And all the people shall say, Amen.
22 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.
23 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that lieth with his mother in law. And all the people shall say, Amen.
24 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that smiteth his neighbour secretly. And all the people shall say, Amen.
25 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that taketh reward to slay an innocent person. And all the people shall say, Amen.
26 Cursed ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ he that confirmeth not ⸨i⸩all⸨/i⸩ the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen.