⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXIV⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩When⸨/sc⸩ a man hath taken a wife, and married her, and it come to pass that she find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found some uncleanness in her: then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and give ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ in her hand, and send her out of his house.
2 And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another manʼs ⸨i⸩wife⸨/i⸩.
3 And ⸨i⸩if⸨/i⸩ the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorcement, and giveth ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ in her hand, and sendeth her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, which took her ⸨i⸩to be⸨/i⸩ his wife;
4 Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ abomination before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God giveth thee ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ an inheritance.
5 ¶ When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall he be charged with any business; ⸨i⸩but⸨/i⸩ he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.
6 ¶ No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge: for he taketh ⸨i⸩a manʼs⸨/i⸩ life to pledge.
7 ¶ If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that thief shall die; and thou shalt put evil away from among you.
8 ¶ Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, ⸨i⸩so⸨/i⸩ ye shall observe to do.
9 Remember what the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God did unto Miriam by the way, after that ye were come forth out of Egypt.
10 ¶ When thou dost lend thy brother any thing, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge.
11 Thou shalt stand abroad, and the man to whom thou dost lend shall bring out the pledge abroad unto thee.
12 And if the man ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge:
13 In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sun goeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: and it shall be righteousness unto thee before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God.
14 ¶ Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant ⸨i⸩that is⸨/i⸩ poor and needy, ⸨i⸩whether he be⸨/i⸩ of thy brethren, or of thy strangers that ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ in thy land within thy gates:
15 At his day thou shalt give ⸨i⸩him⸨/i⸩ his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and it be sin unto thee.
16 The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own sin.
17 ¶ Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, ⸨i⸩nor⸨/i⸩ of the fatherless; nor take a widowʼs raiment to pledge:
18 But thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God redeemed thee thence: therefore I command thee to do this thing.
19 ¶ When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow: that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands.
20 When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
21 When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ afterward: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.
22 And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.