⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XVII⸼
⸨i⸩₁ God reneweth the covenant. ₅ Abram his name is changed in token of a greater blessing. ₁₀ Circumcision is instituted. ₁₅ Sarai her name is changed, and she blessed. ₁₇ Isaac is promised. ₂₃ Abraham and Ishmael are circumcised.⸨/i⸩

₁ ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the Almighty God; ⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ walk before me, and be thou ˈperfect.
₂ And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.
₃ And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,
₄ As for me, behold, my covenant ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ with thee, and thou shalt be a father of ⁺many nations.
₅ Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; ⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ for a father of many nations have I made thee.
₆ And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.
₇ And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.
₈ And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land ⁺wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.
₉ ¶ And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.
₁₀ This ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee; ⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ Every man child among you shall be circumcised.
₁₁ And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a ⸨i⸩ᵈ⸨/i⸩ token of the covenant betwixt me and you.
₁₂ And he that is ⁺eight days old ⸨i⸩ᵉ⸨/i⸩ shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ not of thy seed.
₁₃ He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.
₁₄ And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.
₁₅ ¶ And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah ⸨i⸩shall⸨/i⸩ her name ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩.
₁₆ And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and ⁺she shall be ⸨i⸩a mother⸨/i⸩ of nations; kings of people shall be of her.
₁₇ Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall ⸨i⸩a child⸨/i⸩ be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?
₁₈ And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!
₁₉ And God said, ⸨i⸩ᶠ⸨/i⸩ Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ with his seed after him.
₂₀ And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; ⸨i⸩ᵍ⸨/i⸩ twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.
₂₁ But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.
₂₂ And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.
₂₃ ¶ And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abrahamʼs house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.
₂₄ And Abraham ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
₂₅ And Ishmael his son ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
₂₆ In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.
₂₇ And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 5⸼ 22⸼

⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ Rom⸼ 4⸼ 17⸼

⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ Acts 7⸼ 8⸼

⸨i⸩ᵈ⸨/i⸩ Acts 7⸼ 8⸼
Rom⸼ 4⸼ 11⸼

⸨i⸩ᵉ⸨/i⸩ Lev⸼ 12⸼ 3⸼
Luke 2⸼ 21⸼
John 7⸼ 22⸼

⸨i⸩ᶠ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 18⸼ 10⸼
& 21⸼ 2⸼

⸨i⸩ᵍ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 25⸼ 12⸼

⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩multitude of nations⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩of thy sojournings⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩a son of eight days⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩she shall become nations⸨/i⸩.

ˈ Or, ⸨i⸩upright⸨/i⸩, or, ⸨i⸩sincere⸨/i⸩.