⸨i⸩Rebecca alarmed at Esauʼs threats⸨fix:, ⸩ ⸨/fix⸩prevails on Isaac to send Jacob to Mesopotamia, 1–12.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Isaac comforts Rebecca on the departure of Jacob, 13–18.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Jacobʼs dream and vow at Bethel, 19–27.⸨/i⸩
(Cf⸼ Gen⸼ xxviii⸼)

⸨in⸩27⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ And the words of Esau, her elder son, were told to Rebecca in a dream, and Rebecca sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him:
⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ ‘Behold Esau thy brother will take vengeance on thee so as to kill thee.
⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ Now, therefore, my son, obey my voice, and arise and flee thou to Laban, my brother, to Haran, and tarry with him a few days until thy brotherʼs anger turns away, and he remove his anger from thee, and forget all that thou hast done; then I will send and fetch thee from thence.’
⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob said: ‘I am not afraid; if he wishes to kill me, I will kill him.’
⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ But she said unto him: ‘Let me not be bereft of both my sons on one day.’
⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob said to Rebecca his mother: ‘Behold, thou knowest that my father has become old, and does not see because his eyes are dull, and if I leave him it will be evil in his eyes, because I leave him and go away from you, and my father will be angry, and will curse me. I will not go; when he sends me, then only will I go.’
⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ And Rebecca said to Jacob: ‘I will go in and speak to him, and he will send thee away.’
⸨sup⸩8⸨/sup⸩ And Rebecca went in and said to Isaac: ‘I loathe my life because of the two daughters of Heth, whom Esau has taken him as wives; and if Jacob take a wife from among the daughters of the land such as these, for what purpose do I further live; for the daughters of Canaan are evil.’
⸨sup⸩9⸨/sup⸩ And Isaac called Jacob and blessed him, and admonished him and said unto him:
⸨sup⸩10⸨/sup⸩ ‘Do not take thee a wife of any of the daughters of Canaan; arise and go to Mesopotamia, to the house of Bethuel, thy motherʼs father, and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban, thy motherʼs brother.
⸨sup⸩11⸨/sup⸩ And God Almighty bless thee and increase and multiply thee that thou mayest become a company of nations, and give thee the blessings of my father Abraham, to thee and to thy seed after thee, that thou mayest inherit the land of thy sojournings and all the land which God gave to Abraham: go, my son, in peace.’
⸨sup⸩12⸨/sup⸩ And Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Mesopotamia, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebecca, Jacobʼs mother.
⸨sup⸩13⸨/sup⸩ And it came to pass after Jacob had arisen to go to Mesopotamia that the spirit of Rebecca was grieved after her son, and she wept.
⸨sup⸩14⸨/sup⸩ And Isaac said to Rebecca: ‘My sister, weep not on account of Jacob, my son; for he goeth in peace, and in peace will he return.
⸨sup⸩15⸨/sup⸩ The Most High God will preserve him from all evil, and will be with him; for He will not forsake him all his days;
⸨sup⸩16⸨/sup⸩ For I know that his ways will ⸨b⸩be prospered⸨/b⸩ in all things wherever he goes, until he return in peace to us, and we see him in peace.
⸨sup⸩17⸨/sup⸩ Fear not on his account, my sister, for he is on the upright path and he is a perfect man: and he is faithful and will not perish. Weep not.’
⸨sup⸩18⸨/sup⸩ And Isaac comforted Rebecca on account of her son Jacob, and blessed him.
⸨sup⸩19⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob went from the Well of the Oath to go to Haran on the first year of the second week in the forty‑fourth jubilee, and he came to Luz on the mountains, that is, Bethel, on the new moon of the first month of this week, and he came to the place at even and turned from the way to the west of the road that night: and he slept there; for the sun had set.
⸨sup⸩20⸨/sup⸩ And he took one of the stones of that place and laid ⟨it at his head⟩ under the tree, and he was journeying alone, and he slept.
⸨sup⸩21⸨/sup⸩ And he dreamt that night, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold, the angels of the Lord ascended and descended on it: and behold, the Lord stood upon it.
⸨sup⸩22⸨/sup⸩ And ⸨fix:He⸩he⸨/fix⸩ spake to Jacob and said: ‘I am the Lord God of Abraham, thy father, and the God of Isaac; the land whereon thou art sleeping, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed after thee.
⸨sup⸩23⸨/sup⸩ And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt increase to the west and to the east, to the north and the south, and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the nations be blessed.
⸨sup⸩24⸨/sup⸩ And behold, I will be with thee, and will keep thee whithersoever thou goest, and I will bring thee again into this land in peace; for I will not leave thee until I do everything that I told thee of.’
⸨sup⸩25⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob ⸨b⸩awoke from his sleep⸨/b⸩, and said, ‘Truly this place is the house of the Lord, and I knew it not.’ And he was afraid and said: ‘Dreadful is this place which is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.’
⸨sup⸩26⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob arose early in the morning, and took the stone which he had put under his head and set it up as a pillar for a sign, and he poured oil upon the top of it. And he called the name of that place Bethel; but the name of the place was Luz at the first.
⸨sup⸩27⸨/sup⸩ And Jacob vowed a vow unto the Lord, saying: ‘If the Lord will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again to my fatherʼs house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God, and this stone which I have set up as a pillar for a sign in this place, shall be the Lordʼs house, and of all that thou givest me, I shall give the tenth to thee, my God.’