⸨i⸩Jacob goes to Bethel to offer sacrifice, 1–3⸨/i⸩ (cf⸼ Gen⸼ xxxv⸼ 2–4, 7, 14).
⸨i⸩Isaac blesses Levi, 4–17, and Judah, 18–22.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Jacob recounts to Isaac how God prospered him, 24.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Jacob goes to Bethel with Rebecca and Deborah, 26–30.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Jacob blesses the God of his fathers, 31–2.⸨/i⸩

⸨in⸩31¹ And on the new moon of the month Jacob spake to all the people of his house, saying: ‘Purify yourselves and change your garments, and let us arise and go up to Bethel, where I vowed a vow to Him on the day when I fled from the face of Esau my brother, because ⸨fix:He⸩he⸨/fix⸩ has been with me and brought me into this land in peace, and put ye away the strange gods that are among you.’
² And they ⸨b⸩gave up⸨/b⸩ the strange gods and that which was in their ears and which was †on their necks,† and the idols which Rachel stole from Laban her father she gave wholly to Jacob. And he burnt and brake them to pieces and destroyed them, and hid them under an oak which is in the land of Shechem.
³ And he went up on the new moon of the seventh month to Bethel. And he built an altar at the place where he had slept, and he set up a pillar there, and he sent word to his father Isaac to come to him to his sacrifice, and to his mother Rebecca.
⁴ And Isaac said: ‘Let my son Jacob come, and let me see him before I die.’
⁵ And Jacob went to his father Isaac and to his mother Rebecca, to the house of his father Abraham, and he took two of his sons with him, Levi and Judah, and he came to his father Isaac and to his mother Rebecca.
⁶ And Rebecca came forth from the tower to the front of it to kiss Jacob and embrace him; for her spirit had revived when she heard: ‘Behold Jacob thy son has come’; and she kissed him.
⁷ And she saw his two sons, and she recognised them, and said unto him: ‘Are these thy sons, my son?’ and she embraced them and kissed them, and blessed them, saying: ‘In you shall the seed of Abraham become illustrious, and ye shall prove a blessing on the earth.’
⁸ And Jacob went in to Isaac his father, to the chamber where he lay, and his two sons were with him, and he took the hand of his father, and stooping down he kissed him, and Isaac clung to the neck of Jacob his son, and wept upon his neck.
⁹ And the darkness left the eyes of Isaac, and he saw the two sons of Jacob⸨fix:—⸩, ⸨/fix⸩Levi, and Judah, and he said: ‘Are these thy sons, my son? for they are like thee.’
¹⁰ And he said unto him that they were truly his sons: ‘And thou hast truly seen that they are †truly† my sons’.
¹¹ And they came near to him, and he turned and kissed them and embraced them ⸨b⸩both⸨/b⸩ together.
¹² And the spirit of prophecy came down into his mouth, and he took Levi by his right hand and Judah by his left.
¹³ And he turned to Levi first, and began to bless him first, and said unto him: ‘May the God of all, the very Lord of all the ages, bless thee and thy children throughout all the ages.
¹⁴ And may the Lord give to thee and to thy seed †greatness and great glory†, and cause thee and thy seed, from among all flesh, to approach Him to serve in His sanctuary as the angels of the presence and as the holy ones. (Even) as they, shall the seed of thy sons be for glory and greatness and holiness, and may He make them great unto all the ages.
¹⁵ And they shall be judges and princes, and chiefs of all the seed of the sons of Jacob;

⸨pad⸩They shall speak the word of the Lord in righteousness,
⸨pad⸩And they shall judge all His judgments in righteousness.

⸨pad⸩And they shall declare My ways to Jacob
⸨pad⸩And My paths to Israel.

⸨pad⸩The blessing of the Lord shall be given in their mouths
⸨pad⸩To bless all the seed of the beloved.

⸨pad⸩¹⁶ Thy mother has called thy name Levi,
⸨pad⸩And justly has she called thy name;

⸨pad⸩Thou shalt be joined to the Lord
⸨pad⸩And be the companion of all the sons of Jacob;

⸨pad⸩Let His table be thine,
⸨pad⸩And do thou and thy sons eat thereof;

⸨pad⸩And may thy table be full unto all generations,
⸨pad⸩And thy food fail not unto all the ages.

⸨pad⸩¹⁷ And let all who hate thee fall down before thee,
⸨pad⸩And let all thy adversaries be rooted out and perish;

⸨pad⸩And blessed be he that blesses thee,
⸨pad⸩And cursed be every nation that curses thee.’

⸨in⸩¹⁸ And to Judah he said:
⸨pad⸩‘May the Lord give thee strength and power

⸨pad⸩To tread down all that hate thee;
⸨pad⸩A prince shalt thou be, thou and one of thy sons, over the sons of Jacob;

⸨pad⸩May thy name and the name of thy sons go forth and traverse every land and region.
⸨pad⸩Then shall the Gentiles fear before thy face,

⸨pad⸩And all the nations shall quake
⸨pad⸩[And all the peoples shall quake].

⸨pad⸩¹⁹ In thee shall be the help of Jacob,
⸨pad⸩And in thee be found the salvation of Israel.

⸨pad⸩²⁰ And when thou sittest on the throne of honour of thy righteousness
⸨pad⸩There shall be great peace for all the seed of the sons of the beloved;

⸨pad⸩Blessed be he that blesseth thee,
⸨pad⸩And all that hate thee and afflict thee and curse thee
⸨pad⸩Shall be rooted out and destroyed from the earth and be accursed.’

⸨in⸩²¹ And turning he kissed him again and embraced him, and rejoiced greatly; for he had seen the sons of Jacob his son in very truth.
²² And he went forth from between his feet and fell down and bowed down to him, and he blessed them and rested there with Isaac his father that night, and they eat and drank with joy.
²³ And he made the two sons of Jacob sleep, the one on his right hand and the other on his left, and it was counted to him for righteousness.
²⁴ And Jacob told his father everything during the night, how the Lord had shown him great mercy, and how ⸨fix:He⸩he⸨/fix⸩ had prospered (him in) all his ways, and protected him from all evil.
²⁵ And Isaac blessed the God of his father Abraham, who had not withdrawn ⸨fix:His⸩his⸨/fix⸩ mercy and ⸨fix:His⸩his⸨/fix⸩ righteousness from the sons of ⸨fix:His⸩his⸨/fix⸩ servant Isaac.
²⁶ And in the morning Jacob told his father Isaac the vow which he had vowed to the Lord, and the vision which he had seen, and that he had built an altar, and that everything was ready for the sacrifice to be made before the Lord as he had vowed, and that he had come to set him on an ass.
²⁷ And Isaac said unto Jacob his son: ‘I am not able to go with thee; for I am old and not able to bear the way: go, my son, in peace; for I am one hundred and sixty‑five years this day; I am no longer able to journey; set thy mother (on an ass) and let her go with thee.
²⁸ And I know, my son, that thou hast come on my account, and may this day be blessed on which thou hast seen me alive, and I also have seen thee, my son.
²⁹ Mayest thou prosper and fulfil the vow which thou hast vowed; and put not off thy vow; for thou shalt be called to account as touching the vow; now therefore make haste to perform it, and may He be pleased who has made all things, to whom thou hast vowed the vow.’
³⁰ And he said to Rebecca: ‘Go with Jacob thy son’; and Rebecca went with Jacob her son, and Deborah with her, and they came to Bethel.
³¹ And Jacob remembered the prayer with which his father had blessed him and his two sons, Levi and Judah, and he rejoiced and blessed the God of his fathers, Abraham and Isaac.
³² And he said: ‘Now I know that I have an eternal hope, and my sons also, before the God of all’; and thus is it ordained concerning the two; and they record it as an eternal testimony unto them on the heavenly tablets how Isaac blessed them.