⸨i⸩Abram receives the promise of a son and of innumerable descendants, 1–7.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Offers a sacrifice and is told of his seed being in Egypt, 8–17.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Godʼs covenant with Abram, 18–20.⸨/i⸩
⸨i⸩Hagar bears Ishmael, 21–4.⸨/i⸩
(Cf⸼ Gen⸼ xv⸼; xvi⸼ 1–4, 11.)

⸨in⸩14⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ After these things, in the fourth year of this week, on the new moon of the third month, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a dream, saying: ‘Fear not, Abram; I am thy defender, and thy reward will be ⸨fix:exceedingly⸩exceeding⸨/fix⸩ great.’
⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ And he said: ‘Lord, Lord, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go hence childless, and the son of Mâsêq, the son of my handmaid, is the Dammasek Eliezer: he will be my heir, and to me ⸨fix:Thou⸩thou⸨/fix⸩ hast given no seed.’
⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ And ⸨fix:He⸩he⸨/fix⸩ said unto him: ‘This (man) will not be thy heir, but one that will come out of thine own bowels; he will be thine heir.’
⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ And He brought him forth abroad, and said unto him: ‘Look toward heaven and number the stars, if thou art able to number them.’
⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ And he looked toward heaven, and beheld the stars. And He said unto him: ‘So shall thy seed be.’
⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ And he believed in the Lord, and it was counted to him for righteousness.
⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ And He said unto him: ‘I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee the land of the Canaanites to possess it for ever; and I will be God unto thee and to thy seed after thee.’
⸨sup⸩8⸨/sup⸩ And he said: ‘Lord, Lord, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit (it)?’
⸨sup⸩9⸨/sup⸩ And He said unto him: ‘Take Me an heifer of three years, and a goat of three years, and a sheep of three years, and a turtle‑dove, and a pigeon.’
⸨sup⸩10⸨/sup⸩ And he took all these in the middle of the month; and he dwelt at the oak of Mamre, which is near Hebron.
⸨sup⸩11⸨/sup⸩ And he built there an altar, and sacrificed all these; and he poured their blood upon the altar, and divided them in the midst, and laid them over against each other; but the birds divided he not.
⸨sup⸩12⸨/sup⸩ And birds came down upon the ⸨b⸩pieces⸨/b⸩, and Abram drove them away, and did not suffer the birds to touch them.
⸨sup⸩13⸨/sup⸩ And it came to pass, when the sun had set, that an ecstasy fell upon Abram, and lo⸨fix:!: ⸩! ⸨/fix⸩an horror of great darkness fell upon him, and it was said unto Abram: ‘Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land (that is) not theirs, and they shall bring them into bondage, and afflict them four hundred years.
⸨sup⸩14⸨/sup⸩ And the nation also to whom they will be in bondage will I judge, and after that they shall come forth thence with much substance.
⸨sup⸩15⸨/sup⸩ And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace, and be buried in a good old age.
⸨sup⸩16⸨/sup⸩ But in the fourth generation they shall return hither; for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.’
⸨sup⸩17⸨/sup⸩ And he awoke from his sleep, and he arose, and the sun had set; and there was a flame, and behold⸨fix:!: ⸩! ⸨/fix⸩a furnace was smoking, and a flame of fire passed between the ⸨b⸩pieces⸨/b⸩.
⸨sup⸩18⸨/sup⸩ And on that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying: ‘To thy seed will I give this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates, the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites, the Perizzites, and the Rephaim, the Phakorites, and the Hivites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.
⸨sup⸩19⸨/sup⸩ And the day passed, and Abram offered the ⸨b⸩pieces⸨/b⸩, and the birds, and their fruit offerings, and their drink offerings, and the fire devoured them.
⸨sup⸩20⸨/sup⸩ And on that day we made a covenant with Abram, according as we had covenanted with Noah in this month; and Abram renewed the festival and ordinance for himself for ever.
⸨sup⸩21⸨/sup⸩ And Abram rejoiced, and made all these things known to Sarai his wife; and he believed that he would have seed, but she did not bear.
⸨sup⸩22⸨/sup⸩ And Sarai advised her husband Abram, and said unto him: ‘Go in unto Hagar, my Egyptian maid: it may be that I shall build up seed unto thee by her.’
⸨sup⸩23⸨/sup⸩ And Abram hearkened unto the voice of Sarai his wife, and said unto her, ‘Do (so).’ And Sarai took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to Abram, her husband, to be his wife.
⸨sup⸩24⸨/sup⸩ And he went in unto her, and she conceived and bare him a son, and he called his name Ishmael, in the fifth year of this week; and this was the eighty‑sixth year in the life of Abram.