⸨cen⸩⸨b⸩5⸨/b⸩

⸨in⸩¹ This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him in Godʼs likeness. ² He created them male and female, and blessed them. On the day they were created, he named them Adam⸨fix:†. ⸩.† ⸨/fix⸩³ Adam lived one hundred thirty years, and became the father of a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth. ⁴ The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years, and he became the father of other sons and daughters. ⁵ All the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, then he died.
⸨in⸩⁶ Seth lived one hundred five years, then became the father of Enosh. ⁷ Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ⁸ All of the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, then he died.
⸨in⸩⁹ Enosh lived ninety years, and became the father of Kenan. ¹⁰ Enosh lived after he became the father of Kenan eight hundred fifteen years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ¹¹ All of the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, then he died.
⸨in⸩¹² Kenan lived seventy years, then became the father of Mahalalel. ¹³ Kenan lived after he became the father of Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and became the father of other sons and daughters ¹⁴ and all of the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, then he died.
⸨in⸩¹⁵ Mahalalel lived sixty‑five years, then became the father of Jared. ¹⁶ Mahalalel lived after he became the father of Jared eight hundred thirty years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ¹⁷ All of the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety‑five years, then he died.
⸨in⸩¹⁸ Jared lived one hundred sixty‑two years, then became the father of Enoch. ¹⁹ Jared lived after he became the father of Enoch eight hundred years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ²⁰ All of the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty‑two years, then he died.
⸨in⸩²¹ Enoch lived sixty‑five years, then became the father of Methuselah. ²² After Methuselahʼs birth, Enoch walked with God for three hundred years, and became the father of more sons and daughters. ²³ All the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty‑five years. ²⁴ Enoch walked with God, and he was not found, for God took him.
⸨in⸩²⁵ Methuselah lived one hundred eighty‑seven years, then became the father of Lamech. ²⁶ Methuselah lived after he became the father of Lamech seven hundred eighty‑two years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ²⁷ All the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty‑nine years, then he died.
⸨in⸩²⁸ Lamech lived one hundred eighty‑two years, then became the father of a son. ²⁹ He named him Noah, saying, “This one will comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, caused by the ground which Yahweh has cursed.” ³⁰ Lamech lived after he became the father of Noah five hundred ninety‑five years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. ³¹ All the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy‑seven years, then he died.
⸨in⸩³² Noah was five hundred years old, then Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

† ⸨b⸩5:2⸨/b⸩⸨fix: “⸩⸨i⸩ “⸨/i⸩⸨/fix⸩Adam” and “Man” are spelled with the exact same consonants in Hebrew, so this can be correctly translated either way.