⸨cen⸩⸨b⸩4⸨/b⸩

⸨in⸩¹ The man knew† Eve his wife. She conceived⸨err:‡, ⸩,‡ ⸨/err⸩and gave birth to Cain, and said, “I have gotten a man with Yahwehʼs help.” ² Again she gave birth, to Cainʼs brother Abel. Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. ³ As time passed, Cain brought an offering to Yahweh from the fruit of the ground. ⁴ Abel also brought some of the firstborn of his flock and of its fat. Yahweh respected Abel and his offering, ⁵ but he didnʼt respect Cain and his offering. Cain was very angry, and the expression on his face fell. ⁶ Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you angry? Why has the expression of your face fallen? ⁷ If you do well, wonʼt it be lifted up? If you donʼt do well, sin crouches at the door. Its desire is for you, but you are to rule over it.” ⁸ Cain said to Abel, his brother, “Letʼs go into the field.” While they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him.
⸨in⸩⁹ Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is Abel, your brother?”
⸨in⸩He said, “I donʼt know. Am I my brotherʼs keeper?”
⸨in⸩¹⁰ Yahweh said, “What have you done? The voice of your brotherʼs blood cries to me from the ground. ¹¹ Now you are cursed because of the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brotherʼs blood from your hand. ¹² From now on, when you till the ground, it wonʼt yield its strength to you. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth.”
⸨in⸩¹³ Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is greater than I can bear. ¹⁴ Behold, you have driven me out today from the surface of the ground. I will be hidden from your face, and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth. Whoever finds me will kill me.”
⸨in⸩¹⁵ Yahweh said to him, “Therefore whoever slays Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold.” Yahweh appointed a sign for Cain, so that anyone finding him would not strike him.
⸨in⸩¹⁶ Cain left Yahwehʼs presence, and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. ¹⁷ Cain knew his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Enoch. He built a city, and named the city after the name of his son, Enoch. ¹⁸ Irad was born to Enoch. Irad became the father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the father of Methushael. Methushael became the father of Lamech. ¹⁹ Lamech took two wives: the name of the first one was Adah, and the name of the second one was Zillah. ²⁰ Adah gave birth to Jabal, who was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. ²¹ His brotherʼs name was Jubal, who was the father of all who handle the harp and pipe. ²² Zillah also gave birth to Tubal Cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of bronze and iron. Tubal Cainʼs sister was Naamah. ²³ Lamech said to his wives,
⸨pad⸩“Adah and Zillah, hear my voice.
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩You wives of Lamech, listen to my speech,
⸨pad⸩for I have slain a man for wounding me,
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩a young man for bruising me.
⸨pad⸩²⁴ If Cain will be avenged seven times,
⸨pad⸩⸨pad⸩truly Lamech seventy‑seven times.”
⸨in⸩²⁵ Adam knew his wife again. She gave birth to a son, and named him Seth, saying, “for God has given me another child instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.” ²⁶ A son was also born to Seth, and he named him Enosh. At that time men began to call on Yahwehʼs name.

† ⸨b⸩4:1⸨/b⸩ or, lay with, or, had relations with
‡ ⸨b⸩4:1⸨/b⸩ or, became pregnant