⸨cen⸩⸨b⸩20⸨/b⸩

⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩1⸨/sup⸩ Abraham traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar. ⸨sup⸩2⸨/sup⸩ Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. ⸨sup⸩3⸨/sup⸩ But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken; for she is a manʼs wife.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩4⸨/sup⸩ Now Abimelech had not come near her. He said, “Lord, will you kill even a righteous nation? ⸨sup⸩5⸨/sup⸩ Didnʼt he tell me, ‘She is my sister’? She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my brother.’ I have done this in the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩6⸨/sup⸩ God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I didnʼt allow you to touch her. ⸨sup⸩7⸨/sup⸩ Now therefore, restore the manʼs wife. For he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. If you donʼt restore her, know for sure that you will die, you, and all who are yours.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩8⸨/sup⸩ Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were very scared. ⸨sup⸩9⸨/sup⸩ Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!” ⸨sup⸩10⸨/sup⸩ Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did you see, that you have done this thing?”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩11⸨/sup⸩ Abraham said, “Because I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wifeʼs sake.’ ⸨sup⸩12⸨/sup⸩ Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. ⸨sup⸩13⸨/sup⸩ When God caused me to wander from my fatherʼs house, I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which you shall show to me. Everywhere that we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩14⸨/sup⸩ Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah, his wife, to him. ⸨sup⸩15⸨/sup⸩ Abimelech said, “Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you.” ⸨sup⸩16⸨/sup⸩ To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold, it is for you a covering of the eyes to all that are with you. In front of all you are vindicated.”
⸨in⸩⸨sup⸩17⸨/sup⸩ Abraham prayed to God. So God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children. ⸨sup⸩18⸨/sup⸩ For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abrahamʼs wife.