⸨cen⸩CHAPTER VIII⸼
⸨i⸩₁ The waters asswage. ₄ The ark resteth on Ararat. ₇ The raven and the dove. ₁₅ Noah, being commanded, ₁₈ goeth forth of the ark. ₂₀ He buildeth an altar, and offereth sacrifice, ₂₁ which God accepteth, and promiseth to curse the earth no more.⸨/i⸩

₁ ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;
₂ The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;
₃ And the waters returned from off the earth ⁺continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.
₄ And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.
₅ And the waters ⁺decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth ⸨i⸩month⸨/i⸩, on the first ⸨i⸩day⸨/i⸩ of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.
₆ ¶ And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:
₇ And he sent forth a raven, which went forth ⁺to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.
₈ Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;
₉ But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and ⁺pulled her in unto him into the ark.
₁₀ And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;
₁₁ And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.
₁₂ And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.
₁₃ ¶ And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first ⸨i⸩month⸨/i⸩, the first ⸨i⸩day⸨/i⸩ of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.
₁₄ And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried.
₁₅ ¶ And God spake unto Noah, saying,
₁₆ Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sonsʼ wives with thee.
₁₇ Bring forth with thee every living thing that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ with thee, of all flesh, ⸨i⸩both⸨/i⸩ of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.
₁₈ And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sonsʼ wives with him:
₁₉ Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their ⁺kinds, went forth out of the ark.
₂₀ ¶ And Noah builded an altar unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
₂₁ And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ smelled ⁺a sweet savour; and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for manʼs sake; for the ⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ imagination of manʼs heart ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.
₂₂ ⁺While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 6⸼ 5⸼
Matt⸼ 15⸼ 19⸼

⁺ Heb⸼ in ⸨i⸩going and returning⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ were ⸨i⸩in going and decreasing⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ in ⸨i⸩going forth and returning⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩caused her to come⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩families⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩a savour of rest⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩as yet all the days of the earth⸨/i⸩.