⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXXIX⸼
⸨i⸩₁ Joseph advanced in Potipharʼs house. ₇ He resisteth his mistressʼs temptation. ₁₃ He is falsely accused. ₂₀ He is cast in prison. ₂₁ God is with him there.⸨/i⸩

₁ ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.
₂ And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.
₃ And his master saw that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ with him, and that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ made all that he did to prosper in his hand.
₄ And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ he had he put into his hand.
₅ And it came to pass from the time ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ blessed the Egyptianʼs house for Josephʼs sake; and the blessing of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.
₆ And he left all that he had in Josephʼs hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was ⸨i⸩a⸨/i⸩ goodly ⸨i⸩person⸨/i⸩, and well favoured.
₇ ¶ And it came to pass after these things, that his masterʼs wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.
₈ But he refused, and said unto his masterʼs wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;
₉ ⸨i⸩There is⸨/i⸩ none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?
₁₀ And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, ⸨i⸩or⸨/i⸩ to be with her.
₁₁ And it came to pass about this time, that ⸨i⸩Joseph⸨/i⸩ went into the house to do his business; and ⸨i⸩there was⸨/i⸩ none of the men of the house there within.
₁₂ And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.
₁₃ And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,
₁₄ That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a ⁺loud voice:
₁₅ And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.
₁₆ And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.
₁₇ And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me:
₁₈ And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out.
₁₉ And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.
₂₀ And Josephʼs master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the kingʼs prisoners ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ bound: and he was there in the prison.
₂₁ ¶ But the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was with Joseph, and ⁺shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
₂₂ And the keeper of the prison committed to Josephʼs hand all the prisoners that ⸨i⸩were⸨/i⸩ in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer ⸨i⸩of it⸨/i⸩.
₂₃ The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing ⸨i⸩that was⸨/i⸩ under his hand; because the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was with him, and ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ which he did, the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ made ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ to prosper.

⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩great⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩extended kindness unto him⸨/i⸩.