｟i｠Jacob marries Leah and Rachel, 1–10.｟/i｠
｟i｠His children by Leah and Rachel and by their handmaids, 11–24.｟/i｠
｟i｠Jacob seeks to leave Laban, 25: but stays on at a certain wage, 26–8.｟/i｠
｟i｠Jacob becomes rich, 29–30.｟/i｠
(Cf⸼ Gen⸼ xxix⸼ 1, 17, 18, 21–35; xxx⸼ 1–13, 17–22, 24, 25, 28, 32, 39, 43; xxxi⸼ 1, 2.)

｟in｠28¹ And he went on his journey, and came to the land of the ｟err｠east｟/err｠, to Laban, the brother of Rebecca, and he was with him, and served him for Rachel his daughter one week.
² And in the first year of the third week he said unto him: ‘Give me my wife, for whom I have served thee seven years’; and Laban said unto Jacob: ‘I will give thee thy wife.’
³ And Laban made a feast, and took Leah his elder daughter, and gave (her) to Jacob as a wife, and gave her Zilpah his handmaid for an handmaid; and Jacob did not know, for he thought that she was Rachel.
⁴ And he went in unto her, and behold, she was Leah; and Jacob was angry with Laban, and said unto him: ‘Why hast thou dealt thus with me? Did not I serve thee for Rachel and not for Leah? Why hast thou wronged me? Take thy daughter, and I will go; for thou hast done evil to me.’
⁵ For Jacob loved Rachel more than Leah; for Leahʼs eyes were weak, but her form was very handsome; but Rachel had beautiful eyes and a beautiful and very handsome form.
⁶ And Laban said to Jacob: ‘It is not so done in our country, to give the younger before the elder.’ And it is not right to do this; for thus it is ordained and written in the heavenly tablets, that no one should give his younger daughter before the elder—but the elder, one gives first and after her the younger—and the man who does so, they set down guilt against him in heaven, and none is righteous that does this thing, for this deed is evil before the Lord.
⁷ And command thou the children of Israel that they do not this thing; let them neither take nor give the younger before they have given the elder, for it is very wicked.
⁸ And Laban said to Jacob: ‘Let the seven days of the feast of this one pass by, and I shall give thee Rachel, that thou mayst serve me another seven years, that thou mayst pasture my sheep as thou didst in the former week.’
⁹ And on the day when the seven days of the feast of Leah had passed, Laban gave Rachel to Jacob, that he might serve him another seven years, and he gave to Rachel Bilhah, the sister of Zilpah, as a handmaid.
¹⁰ And he served yet other seven years for Rachel, for Leah had been given to him for nothing.
¹¹ And the Lord opened the womb of Leah, and she conceived and bare Jacob a son, and he called his name Reuben, on the fourteenth day of the ninth month, in the first year of the third week.
¹² But the womb of Rachel was closed, for the Lord saw that Leah was hated and Rachel loved.
¹³ And again Jacob went in unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob a second son, and he called his name Simeon, on the twenty‑first of the tenth month, and in the third year of this week.
¹⁴ And again Jacob went in unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare him a third son, and he called his name Levi, in the new moon of the first month in the sixth year of this week.
¹⁵ And again Jacob went in unto her, and she conceived, and bare him a fourth son, and he called his name Judah, on the fifteenth of the third month, in the †first† year of the †fourth† week.
¹⁶ And on account of all this Rachel envied Leah, for she did not bear, and she said to Jacob: ‘Give me children’; and Jacob said: ‘Have I withheld from thee the fruits of thy womb? Have I forsaken thee?’
¹⁷ And when Rachel saw that Leah had borne four sons to Jacob, Reuben and Simeon and Levi and Judah, she said unto him: ‘Go in unto Bilhah my handmaid, and she will conceive, and bear a son unto me.’
¹⁸ 〈And she gave (him) Bilhah her handmaid to wife｟err｠〉. ｟/err｠And he went in unto her, and she conceived, and bare him a son, and he called his name Dan, on the ninth of the sixth month, in the †sixth† year of the †third† week.
¹⁹ And Jacob went in again unto Bilhah a second time, and she conceived, and bare Jacob another son, and Rachel called his name ｟err｠Napthali｟/err｠, on the fifth of the seventh month, in the second year of the fourth week.
²⁰ And when Leah saw that she had become sterile and did not bear, she envied Rachel, and she also gave her handmaid Zilpah to Jacob to wife, and she conceived, and bare a son, and Leah called his name Gad, on the twelfth of the eighth month, in the third year of the fourth week.
²¹ And he went in again unto her, and she conceived, and bare him a second son, and Leah called his name Asher, on the second of the eleventh month, in the †fifth† year of the fourth week.
²² And Jacob went in unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Issachar, on the fourth of the fifth month, in the †fourth† year of the fourth week, and she gave him to a nurse.
²³ And Jacob went in again unto her, and she conceived, and bare two (children), a son and a daughter, and she called the name of the son ｟err｠Zabulon｟/err｠, and the name of the daughter Dinah, in the seventh of the seventh month, in the sixth year of the fourth week.
²⁴ And the Lord was gracious to Rachel, and opened her womb, and she conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Joseph, on the new moon of the fourth month, in the †sixth† year in this fourth week.
²⁵ And in the days when Joseph was born, Jacob said to Laban: ‘Give me my wives and sons, and let me go to my father Isaac, and let me make me an house; for I have completed the years in which I have served thee for thy two daughters, and I will go to the house of my father.’
²⁶ And Laban said to Jacob: ‘†Tarry with me for thy wages†, and pasture my flock for me again, and take thy wages.’
²⁷ And they agreed with one another that he should give him as his wages those of the lambs and kids which were born ｟b｠black｟/b｠ and spotted and †white†, (these) were to be his wages.
²⁸ And all the sheep brought forth spotted and ｟b｠speckled and black, variously marked｟/b｠, and they brought forth again lambs like themselves, and all that were spotted were Jacobʼs and those which were not were Labanʼs.
²⁹ And Jacobʼs possessions multiplied exceedingly, and he possessed oxen and sheep and asses and camels, and menservants and maid｟err｠‑｟/err｠servants.
³⁰ And Laban and his sons envied Jacob, and Laban took back his sheep from him, and he observed him with evil intent.