⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XVI⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they offered before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and died;
2 And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not⸨err: at ⸩ ⸨/err⸩all times into the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩ within the vail before the mercy seat, which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ upon the ark; that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat.
3 Thus shall Aaron come into the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩⸨err:: ⸩⸨i⸩: ⸨/i⸩⸨/err⸩with a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.
4 He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with the linen mitre shall he be attired: these ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ holy garments; therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and ⸨i⸩so⸨/i⸩ put them on.
5 And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.
6 And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for his house.
7 And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩at⸨/i⸩ the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
8 And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and the other lot for the scapegoat.
9 And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the ⸨sc⸩Lordʼs⸨/sc⸩ lot fell, and offer him ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ a sin offering.
10 But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, to make an atonement with him, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.
11 And Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering, which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ for himself, and shall make an atonement for himself, and for his house, and shall kill the bullock of the sin offering which ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ for himself:
12 And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and his hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ within the vail:
13 And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ upon the testimony, that he die not:
14 And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward; and before the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times.
15 ¶ Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering, that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ for the people, and bring his blood within the vail, and do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:
16 And he shall make an atonement for the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: and so shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, that remaineth among them in the midst of their uncleanness.
17 And there shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩, until he come out, and have made an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel.
18 And he shall go out unto the altar that ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and make an atonement for it; and shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ upon the horns of the altar round about.
19 And he shall sprinkle of the blood upon it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.
20 ¶ And when he hath made an end of reconciling the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat:
21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send ⸨i⸩him⸨/i⸩ away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness:
22 And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness.
23 And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall put off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩, and shall leave them there:
24 And he shall wash his flesh with water in the holy place, and put on his garments, and come forth, and offer his burnt offering, and the burnt offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people.
25 And the fat of the sin offering shall he burn upon the altar.
26 And he that let go the goat for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward come into the camp.
27 And the bullock ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ the sin offering, and the goat ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy ⸨i⸩place⸨/i⸩, shall ⸨i⸩one⸨/i⸩ carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in the fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung.
28 And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.
29 ¶ And ⸨i⸩this⸨/i⸩ shall be a statute for ever unto you: ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ in the seventh month, on the tenth ⸨i⸩day⸨/i⸩ of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, ⸨i⸩whether it be⸨/i⸩ one of your own country, or a stranger that sojourneth among you:
30 For on that day shall ⸨i⸩the priest⸨/i⸩ make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ ye may be clean from all your sins before the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
31 It ⸨i⸩shall be⸨/i⸩ a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls, by a statute for ever.
32 And the priest, whom he shall anoint, and whom he shall consecrate to minister in the priestʼs office in his fatherʼs stead, shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen clothes, ⸨i⸩even⸨/i⸩ the holy garments:
33 And he shall make an atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the congregation, and for the altar, and he shall make an atonement for the priests, and for all the people of the congregation.
34 And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year. And he did as the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ commanded Moses.