⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XVII⸼

1 ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ spake unto Moses, saying,
2 Speak unto Aaron, and unto his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them; This ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ the thing which the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ hath commanded, saying,
3 What man soever ⸨i⸩there be⸨/i⸩ of the house of Israel, that killeth an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or that killeth ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ out of the camp,
4 And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer an offering unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ before the tabernacle of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩; blood shall be imputed unto that man; he hath shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people:
5 To the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they offer in the open field, even that they may bring them unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest, and offer them ⸨i⸩for⸨/i⸩ peace offerings unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
6 And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ ⸨i⸩at⸨/i⸩ the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the fat for a sweet savour unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
7 And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto devils, after whom they have gone a whoring. This shall be a statute for ever unto them throughout their generations.
8 ¶ And thou shalt say unto them, Whatsoever man ⸨i⸩there be⸨/i⸩ of the house of Israel, or of the strangers which sojourn among you, that offereth a burnt offering or sacrifice,
9 And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it unto the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩; even that man shall be cut off from among his people.
10 ¶ And whatsoever man ⸨i⸩there be⸨/i⸩ of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, that eateth any manner of blood; I will even set my face against that soul that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
11 For the life of the flesh ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ in the blood: and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls: for it ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ the blood ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ maketh an atonement for the soul.
12 Therefore I said unto the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourneth among you eat blood.
13 And whatsoever man ⸨i⸩there be⸨/i⸩ of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, which hunteth and catcheth any beast or fowl that may be eaten; he shall even pour out the blood thereof, and cover it with dust.
14 For ⸨i⸩it is⸨/i⸩ the life of all flesh; the blood of it ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ for the life thereof: therefore I said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh: for the life of all flesh ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ the blood thereof: whosoever eateth it shall be cut off.
15 And every soul that eateth that which died ⸨i⸩of itself⸨/i⸩, or that which was torn ⸨i⸩with beasts⸨/i⸩, ⸨i⸩whether it be⸨/i⸩ one of your own country, or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes, and bathe ⸨i⸩himself⸨/i⸩ in water, and be unclean until the even: then shall he be clean.
16 But if he wash ⸨i⸩them⸨/i⸩ not, nor bathe his flesh; then he shall bear his iniquity.