⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XXVI⸼
⸨i⸩₁ Isaac because of famine went to Gerar. ₂ God instructeth, and blesseth him. ₇ He is reproved by Abimelech for denying his wife. ₁₂ He groweth rich. ₁₈ He diggeth Esek, Sitnah, and Rehoboth. ₂₆ Abimelech maketh a covenant with him at Beer‑sheba. ₃₄ Esauʼs wives.⸨/i⸩

₁ ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.
₂ And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:
₃ Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, ⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;
₄ And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be ⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ blessed;
₅ Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.
₆ ¶ And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:
₇ And the men of the place asked ⸨i⸩him⸨/i⸩ of his wife; and he said, She ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my sister: for he feared to say, ⸨i⸩She is⸨/i⸩ my wife; lest, ⸨i⸩said he⸨/i⸩, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ fair to look upon.
₈ And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ sporting with Rebekah his wife.
₉ And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ thy wife: and how saidst thou, She ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.
₁₀ And Abimelech said, What ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.
₁₁ And Abimelech charged all ⸨i⸩his⸨/i⸩ people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.
₁₂ Then Isaac sowed in that land, and ⁺received in the same year an hundredfold: and the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ blessed him.
₁₃ And the man waxed great, and ⁺went forward, and grew until he became very great:
₁₄ For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of ˈservants: and the Philistines envied him.
₁₅ For all the wells which his fatherʼs servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.
₁₆ And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.
₁₇ ¶ And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
₁₈ And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.
₁₉ And Isaacʼs servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of ⁺springing water.
₂₀ And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaacʼs herdmen, saying, The water ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ ours: and he called the name of the well ˈEsek; because they strove with him.
₂₁ And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it ˈSitnah.
₂₂ And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it ˈRehoboth; and he said, For now the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.
₂₃ And he went up from thence to Beer‑sheba.
₂₄ And the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ appeared unto him the same night, and said, I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I ⸨i⸩am⸨/i⸩ with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abrahamʼs sake.
₂₅ And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaacʼs servants digged a well.
₂₆ ¶ Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.
₂₇ And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?
₂₈ And they said, ⁺We saw certainly that the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩ was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, ⸨i⸩even⸨/i⸩ betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;
₂₉ ⁺That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ now the blessed of the ⸨sc⸩Lord⸨/sc⸩.
₃₀ And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.
₃₁ And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.
₃₂ And it came to pass the same day, that Isaacʼs servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.
₃₃ And he called it ˈShebah: therefore the name of the city ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ ˈBeer‑sheba unto this day.
₃₄ ¶ And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:
₃₅ Which ⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ were ⁺a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 13⸼ ⸨err⸩15⸨/err⸩
& 15⸼ 18⸼

⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 12⸼ 3⸼⸨err⸩ ⸨/err⸩& 15⸼ 18⸼
& 22⸼ 18⸼

⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ ⸨err⸩27⸨/err⸩ 46⸼

⁺ ⸨err⸩Heb⸨/err⸩ ⸨i⸩found⸨/i⸩⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩went going⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩living⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩Seeing we saw⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩If thou shalt, &c⸼⸨/i⸩
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩bitterness of spirit⸨/i⸩.

ˈ Or, ⸨i⸩husbandry⸨/i⸩.
ˈ That is, ⸨i⸩Contention⸨/i⸩.
ˈ That is⸨err⸩ ⸨/err⸩⸨i⸩Hatred⸨/i⸩⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩
ˈ That is, ⸨i⸩Room⸨/i⸩.
ˈ That is, ⸨i⸩an oath⸨/i⸩.
ˈ That is, ⸨i⸩the well of the oath⸨/i⸩.