⸨cen⸩CHAPTER XLIV⸼
⸨i⸩₁ Josephʼs policy to stay his brethren. ₁₄ Judahʼs humble supplication to Joseph.⸨/i⸩

₁ ⸨sc⸩And⸨/sc⸩ he commanded ⁺the steward of his house, saying, Fill the menʼs sacks ⸨i⸩with⸨/i⸩ food, as much as they can carry, and put every manʼs money in his sackʼs mouth.
₂ And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sackʼs mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.
₃ As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.
₄ ⸨i⸩And⸨/i⸩ when they were gone out of the city, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ not ⸨i⸩yet⸨/i⸩ far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?
₅ ⸨i⸩Is⸨/i⸩ not this ⸨i⸩it⸨/i⸩ in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he ˈdivineth? ye have done evil in so doing.
₆ ¶ And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.
₇ And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing:
₈ Behold, the money, which we found in our sacksʼ mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lordʼs house silver or gold?
₉ With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lordʼs bondmen.
₁₀ And he said, Now also ⸨i⸩let⸨/i⸩ it ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.
₁₁ Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.
₁₂ And he searched, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjaminʼs sack.
₁₃ Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.
₁₄ ¶ And Judah and his brethren came to Josephʼs house; for he ⸨i⸩was⸨/i⸩ yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.
₁₅ And Joseph said unto them, What deed ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly ˈdivine?
₁₆ And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we ⸨i⸩are⸨/i⸩ my lordʼs servants, both we, and ⸨i⸩he⸨/i⸩ also with whom the cup is found.
₁₇ And he said, God forbid that I should do so: ⸨i⸩but⸨/i⸩ the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.
₁₈ ¶ Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lordʼs ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou ⸨i⸩art⸨/i⸩ even as Pharaoh.
₁₉ My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?
₂₀ And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.
₂₁ And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.
₂₂ And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for ⸨i⸩if⸨/i⸩ he should leave his father, ⸨i⸩his father⸨/i⸩ would die.
₂₃ And thou saidst unto thy servants, ⸨i⸩ᵃ⸨/i⸩ Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.
₂₄ And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.
₂₅ And our father said, Go again, ⸨i⸩and⸨/i⸩ buy us a little food.
₂₆ And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the manʼs face, except our youngest brother ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ with us.
₂₇ And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two ⸨i⸩sons⸨/i⸩⸨err⸩⸨i⸩:⸨/i⸩⸨/err⸩
₂₈ And the one went out from me, and I said, ⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since:
₂₉ And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.
₃₀ Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the ladʼs life;
₃₁ It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad ⸨i⸩is⸨/i⸩ not ⸨i⸩with us⸨/i⸩, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.
₃₂ For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, ⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.
₃₃ Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.
₃₄ For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad ⸨i⸩be⸨/i⸩ not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall ⁺come on my father.

⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩·p⸼⸨/err⸩ 43⸼⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩⸨err⸩⸨/err⸩

⸨i⸩ᵇ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 37⸼ 33⸼

⸨i⸩ᶜ⸨/i⸩ chap⸼ 43⸼ 9⸼

⁺ Heb⸼ him ⸨i⸩that⸨/i⸩ was ⸨i⸩over his house⸨/i⸩.
⁺ Heb⸼ ⸨i⸩find my father⸨/i⸩.

ˈ Or⸨err⸩ ⸨/err⸩⸨i⸩maketh trial?⸨/i⸩
ˈ Or, ⸨i⸩make trial?⸨/i⸩